Hillary Clinton is a liar. Everything she spews from her corrupt mouth is a lie and she arrogantly believes that the American people are foolish enough to believe it.

During the third presidential debate last night between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, the theme of the debate was very different from the other two.

Last nights debate felt very scripted, and no one on the debate stage was more prepared for a scripted, rehearsed debate than Hillary Clinton.

Hillary has been caught a total of three times wearing an earpiece during the last four debates to receive help from an outside source.

In the Commander-in-Chief debate, photos prove that she was wearing an earpiece.

During the first presidential debate, Hillary Clinton was caught a second time wearing a listening device. Hillary is doing this because she has lied for so long that she cannot remember what the truth is.

The earpiece allows someone to assist her and guide her when she is either listening to the question or is preparing to respond to Donald Trump while he is speaking.

Again, this is a major form of cheating, yet the mainstream media refuses to cover any of this. The write this off as a "conspiracy theory" when video and photo evidence clearly shows that she has been caught several times cheating.

Last night, during the final presidential debate, Hillary Clinton was caught cheating a third time.

The first video will show the undoctored, live version of the sound.

During this segment, Hillary did not have a scripted answer for the question. As she began to stumble and struggle with her rebuttal, you will hear in the video a whisper of someone saying "dozens" in order to help Clinton get back on track with her answer.

Here is the doctored video that the liberal networks released after the debate. You will notice that the doctored version below does not have this whisper and it does not show that Clinton received help during this debate.

Many are asking how we were able to hear the "whispered" answer. It can be explained as a high-frequency device aimed towards her ear.

Many experts have argued that the microphone on the podium collided with Clintons earpiece during the exchange. The high-frequency from Clintons earpiece was heard once, and then we never heard it again for the remainder of the debate.

The networks knew what happened and they quickly adjusted by turning the volume down on her microphone. They lowered the volume on her podium microphone so that when she continued to receive answers in her earpiece, no one would be able to hear this "whispering voice."

As one can imagine, the liberal media networks are refusing to covering this story because they are all colluding with the Clinton campaign. WikiLeaks has proved that to be true time and time again.

The American people must continue to reject the collusion between the mainstream media and the Clinton campaign. They have been conspiring and working together for over a year to promote Hillary while trying to destroy Donald Trump in a vile way.

We are no longer going to accept this political tyranny. The government elite have failed us long enough, and we will rise up together and drain the swamp on Election Day.

Do your part. Continue to expose this corruption.
