With Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton consistently gaining in the polls and the controversy surrounding alleged unregistered sex offender Donald Trump, WikiLeaks may have just handed the election to Clinton.

Alleged unregistered sex offender and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has been his own worst ally during the presidential election. Documents were released on Friday, in which a Newsweek article written by reporter Kurt Eichenwald is quoted. Somehow, the words taken from a 10,000 word piece ended up being attributed to Sidney Blumenthal, a confidant of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. Who did this? A Russian-controlled media outlet.

The fictitious email linked Clinton's campaign chair, John Podesta, to Sidney Blumenthal. The thing is, not only is the email completely fabricated, and obviously meant to make the Democratic presidential nominee look bad, but some of the very words used in the faux email were pilfered. Obviously they didn't count on being caught.

The words were not only plagiarized and passed off as being written by someone else, but purposely misleading, leaving a large portion of text that would explain the context. Two sentences of Eichenwald's were used in the false article out of 10,000 and according to Eichenwald, 22 different mentions in the article took words from Newsweek.

Somehow the documents picked up by Trump's campaign, where they wasted no time printing them and handing them to the GOP nominee during a rally, where he read them in front of the crowd. What we'd all like to know is, why is the Trump campaign looking to a Russian media outlet for factual information about his opponent?

Eichenwald attempted to explain:

'In an email titled "The Truth" from Hillary's top confidante, Sidney Blumenthal, the adviser writing to the undisclosed recipients said that "one important point that has been universally acknowledged by nine previous reports about Benghazi: The attack was almost certainly preventable." 'Then came the money quote: '"Clinton was in charge of the State Department, and it failed to protect U.S. personnel at an American consulate in Libya. If the GOP wants to raise that as a talking point against her, it is legitimate." 'Those words sounded really, really familiar. Really Familiar. Like so familiar they struck me as something I wrote. Because they were something I wrote.'

As stated, the wildly false story was reported by a Russian-controlled agency. Then, later, at a Trump rally in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, the alleged unregistered sex offender and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump then read the "email" aloud.

Trump held the documents and said:

'This just came out a little while ago, I have to tell you this. He's now admitting they could have done something about Benghazi. The crowd at the rally greeted Dictator Trump's words with a few choice words of her own. Like, "lock her up!"'

You can check out the full editorial over at the Newsweek website.

Featured Image via Getty Images
