No wonder FBI Director Comey did not charge Hillary Clinton! He was being paid the big bucks from the Clinton Foundation!

Hillary Clinton placed this country in peril on many levels by sending top secret information via her unsecured email server. ANYONE else would be in prison right now.

We were shocked when the FBI Director Comey gave her a free pass, but now we really know why!

Breitbart Reports:

A review of FBI Director James Comey's professional history and relationships shows that the Obama cabinet leader -- now under fire for his handling of the investigation of Hillary Clinton -- is deeply entrenched in the big-money cronyism culture of Washington, D.C. His personal and professional relationships -- all undisclosed as he announced the Bureau would not prosecute Clinton -- reinforce bipartisan concerns that he may have politicized the criminal probe. These concerns focus on millions of dollars that Comey accepted from a Clinton Foundation defense contractor, Comey's former membership on a Clinton Foundation corporate partner's board, and his surprising financial relationship with his brother Peter Comey, who works at the law firm that does the Clinton Foundation's taxes. Comey earned $6 million in one year alone from Lockheed Martin. Lockheed Martin became a Clinton Foundation donor that very year. (There are a lot of details to this story, read the rest of the article at Breitbart)

More than 200 Republicans sent a letter to Comey demanding to know why he didn't recommend federal charges against Hillary about her use of private email servers. Comey has more than gotten rich over the last few years, Comey needs to be in prison next to Hillary!

This needs to be seen by all:

Lead FBI agent John Giacalone abruptly resigned in the middle of the investigation in February 2016.

pay-for-play involving the Clinton Foundation were not properly vetted, ultimately white washed

FBI agents were blocked from serving search warrants to retrieve key evidence

FBI agents were not allowed to interrogate witnesses and targets without warning

FBI agents had been trying to interview Clinton since December 2015, approval delayed by top brass

FBI agents believed Clinton case was being "slow-walked" to run-out-the-clock

FBI agents stunned that targets Cheryl Mills and Heather Samuelson were permitted to sit in on Hillary Clinton's FBI interview.

Clinton and aides cited amnesia. In Clinton's case she claimed due to medical complications.

Attempts to secure Clinton's medical records to confirm her head injury were sabotaged by FBI Director James Comey
