The FBI reopened the case of Hillary Clinton in a stunning turn of events just days before the presidential election. Information that was also confirmed by Jason Chaffetz! Well, this news as surprising as it might sound is the worst news in Hillary's campaign for one simple reason under U.S. Code laws Hillary is officially disqualified. To be precise U.S. Code Title 18, Part 1 Chapter 2071 as you can view bellow!

(a) Whoever willfully and unlawfully conceals, removes, mutilates, obliterates, or destroys, or attempts to do so, or, with intent to do so takes and carries away any record, proceeding, map, book, paper, document, or other thing, filed or deposited with any clerk or officer of any court of the United States, or in any public office, or with any judicial or public officer of the United States, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than three years, or both. (b) Whoever, having the custody of any such record, proceeding, map, book, document, paper, or other thing, willfully and unlawfully conceals, removes, mutilates, obliterates, falsifies, or destroys the same, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than three years, or both; and shall forfeit his office and be disqualified from holding any office under the United States. As used in this subsection, the term "office" does not include the office held by any person as a retired officer of the Armed Forces of the United States. (June 25, 1948, ch. 645, 62 Stat. 795 Pub. L. 101-510, div. A, title V , SS 552(a), , 104 Stat. 1566 Pub. L. 103-322, title XXXIII , SS 330016(1)(I), , 108 Stat. 2147 .)

Will Hillary break the law again and keep her security clearance we have to wait and see, but if there is any law in our country she would be disqualified to run for president!

Comey did suggest another remedy: the loss of her security clearance.

If she were anyone else, Comey said in a televised press statement, the facts uncovered in the FBI's investigation might cost Clinton her security clearance -- if not her job.

You can view the full article about Hillary's security clearance in a link below! And if you like more articles like this feel free to like us on Facebook by following this link








