Some of the answers that pro-abortion presidential candidate Hillary Clinton gave during both the primary and general election debates led some skeptics to wonder if she had received the questions beforehand.

Now new emails show the interim chairwoman for the Democratic National Committee and former CNN contributor Donna Brazile appears to have leaked more than one debate question to Clinton's campaign staff ahead of debates.

The Washington Examiner newspaper has more on the Wikileaks emails:

In an email dated March 3, 2016, Brazile sent a note to Clinton's campaign chairman, John Podesta, and the Democratic nominee's director of communications, Jennifer Palmieri, titled "One of the questions directed to HRC tomorrow is from a woman with a rash." The body of Brazile's email read, "Her family has lead poison and she will ask what, if anything, will Hillary do as president to help the [people] of Flint." "Folks, I did a service project today. It's so tragic. And what's worse, some homes have not been tested and it's important to encourage seniors to also get tested," she wrote. SIGN THE PLEDGE! We Oppose Hillary Clinton! Brazile seemingly leaked more than one debate question to the former secretary of state's campaign team. On March 12, Brazile reached out a second time to Palmieri to give advance notice of a certain question that would be asked the next day at a town hall hosted by CNN. "From time to time I get the questions in advance," Brazile, then a CNN as a political analyst, wrote. "Here's one that worries me about [Hillary Rodham Clinton]."

From the pro-life perspective, Clinton during the debates made it clear that she wants a Supreme Court nominee who will support unlimited abortion.

Hillary Clinton reiterated her promise to appoint judges to the Supreme Court who will support Roe vs. Wade -- the terrible Supreme Court decision that allowed virtually unlimited abortions throughout pregnancy for any reason. Roe has resulted in 59 million abortions on unborn babies over the last four and a half decades.

Clinton wants that to continue.

"Donald has put forth names of people he would consider, people who would reverse Roe v. Wade ," Hillary complained.

"I want a Supreme Court that will stick with Roe v. Wade and a woman's right to choose," she added.

Back in March, Clinton said she will not name any nominees to the Supreme Court who do not support abortion on demand.

Asked about President Barack Obama's nominee to replace pro-life Justice Antonin Scalia, Clinton said she would not second guess Obama's nomination and added that any nomination she would make if elected would be a hardcore abortion activists who supports Roe.
