Clintons Caught Giving 96% Of Charitable Donations To OWN Foundation

Shocker there. According to their tax returns, the Clintons are VERY charitable... to themselves. Last year, they made a whopping $10.7 million in income. Most of which came from Bill Clinton's corrupt speaking fees. Hillary Clinton made $3 million bucks from a book that no one read and she made almost $1.5 million in speaking fees herself vs. $5.25 million from Billy Boy. 96% of what they gave to charity was to the Clinton Foundation. Talk about circular money laundering.

But if you think that is outrageous, then don't look at 2014, where this dynamic duo made a monstrous $28.3 million. Corrupt does not begin to cover the Clintons. Just think what the Hildabeast would do as president.

If the Clintons think this will shame Trump into releasing his tax returns, they are delusional. He has almost as much, if not more, to hide than they do. It would be suicide for the Trump empire to let go of those docs, I would wager.

From CNBC:

Hillary Clinton also listed $1.475 million in gross income from speaking, and Bill reported $5.25 million in gross income from speaking. No details were provided on those speaking engagements. The Clintons made $10.7 million in total income, but reported an adjusted gross income of $10.6 million due to a self-employment tax deduction. Other significant sources of income included $3 million in book proceeds for Hillary, and $1.6 million for Bill's consulting with GEMS Education, an international education company, and Laureate Education, Inc., a for-profit education chain.

The Clintons donated $1,042,000 to charity in 2015. Of that, all but $42,000 went to the Clinton Family Foundation, which then hands out donations to charities of its own. And somehow, that money winds up right back where it started... in their pockets. Imagine that.

And that is not the only foundation at play here... the Clinton Family Foundation is not linked to the Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation, which includes the Clinton Global Initiative. Where millions more pour in from. Especially from foreign entities who are buying influence with the Clintons.

As you would expect, the Clinton Family Foundation also sends money ($1.8 million in 2014) to the Clinton Foundation that's all over the news. But only the Clinton Foundation is under scrutiny by the FBI and the Attorney General - most of the corrupt dealings are in their Family Foundation. See how this works? Sleight of hand... shuffle the money and criminal dealings and then claim your were investigated and are clean. Fool the masses with shadowy investigations that really prove nothing and were never meant to.

Charity is in the eye of the beholder and the pockets of the wealthy it would seem.
