Advertisement - story continues below

Newly released documents show that of the charitable donations made by Bill and Hillary Clinton in 2015, the majority of it went to the Clintons themselves.

The couple's 2015 tax returns record that out of the $10.6 million in adjusted gross income they received in 2015, $1,042,000 was given to charity. The majority of that sum went to the Clinton Foundation, while another $42,00 was given to Desert Classic Charities.

In other words, "Of the $1,042,000 that the Clintons gave to charity last year, 96 percent of it went to their own foundation, and four percent of it went to fund a golf tournament," wrote Charles C. Cooke for National Review.

Advertisement - story continues below

The Clinton Foundation has been under scrutiny for alleged corruption and conflict of interest with the State Department during Clinton's time as secretary of state. "A new batch of emails released earlier this week seemed to show donors got preferential treatment during Clinton's tenure at the department," reported Fox News.

In a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Sen John Cornyn, R-Texas, inquired about the Department of Justice's refusal to investigate the foundation. "... representatives of the Foundation repeatedly sought special treatment for its donors and associates from senior officials at the State Department," Cornyn wrote.

He continued, "This kind of conduct is unacceptable, and reflects the worst concerns harbored by the public about the abuse of government office to benefit the powerful at the expense of the American people."

Advertisement - story continues below

On Fox News' Special Report Charles Krauthammer said of the foundation, "It is obvious that it was a huge networking operation, funding, supporting and giving jobs to the entire Clinton retinue, waiting for her accession-for the Clintons to return to the White House."

The State Department has denied any conflict of interest.

According to the Daily Caller, the FBI is currently conducting multiple investigations into the charges against the foundation.

Their investigations are focused in New York City, the main office of the foundation, and are receiving support from U.S. Attorneys Office.

Advertisement - story continues below

Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, is leading the investigations, The Daily Caller reported. Bharara has been involved in a number of New York-based prosecutions and convictions in both the financial and governmental spheres.
