Sean Brown AMERICA'S FREEDOM FIGHTERS -

Hillary Clinton just released her 2015 tax returns ostensible to pressure Donald Trump into pressuring his, but she may have been smarter to have kept them hidden from the public's eye.

Why, you ask? Well, because while the Ice Queen claims to be a giving and charitable person, and she did in fact "donate" over a million dollars to "charity," almost every penny of it went to one place - the Clinton Foundation. No, seriously. A report from the Daily Caller reveals that Hillary's philanthropy starts with herself and ends with herself, considering her own foundation has skyrocketed her and Bill's net worth into the hundreds of millions.

$111 million, to be exact.

In total, Hillary took a tax write off for $1,042,000 for the 2015 tax year, and she and Bill had a combined total income of $10,745,378, which mostly came from her and Bill giving their famous speeches worth a half of a million a pop. To an outside observer, you'd think that donating ten percent of your total income to a charity is a rather generous thing to do, and they'd be right if it weren't for the fact that almost all of it went to an entity they control - hardly altruistic.

The return shows that of their total tax charitable contributions, only $42,000 was contributed to a cause outside of their own foundation - Desert Classic Charities, which hosts an annual PGA golf event. Their effective tax rate was 34.2 percent, and with state and local taxes adding another nine percent to that, they paid just north of 43 percent of their income in taxes.

The release of her returns is likely to get Trump to release his, which he says isn't going to happen until his "routine audit" has been completed. Regardless, Hillary's tax return reveals that she and Bill donate large sums of money to themselves for the sole purpose of being able to deduct it from their taxable income.

Ironically, she often accuses Trump of "gaming" the system to enrich himself, but the fact of the matter is that she and Bill are pretty big players themselves. After all, while it may be legal to take such write offs, it's not exactly the most ethical thing to do, considering their foundation is nothing more than a massive money laundering scheme that's now under federal investigation for it.

If you enjoyed this story, be sure to follow Sean Brown on Facebook, and check out his website, politicalcult.com.

GOD BLESS ALL OF YOU PATRIOTS AND GOD BLESS AMERICA!

VOTE FOR DONALD TRUMP AND TOGETHER WE WILL MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!

Dean James III% AMERICA'S FREEDOM FIGHTERS

Please share this on Facebook and Twitter!
