According to tax returns for 2015 released by the Clinton campaign, 96% of the candidate's charitable donations went to the Clinton Foundation.

Daily Caller:

The documents show that the power couple earned $10,745,378 last year, mostly on income earned from giving public speeches. Of that, they gave just over a million to charity. But the contributions can hardly be seen as altruistic, since the money flowed back to an entity they control. The other $42,000 contribution was to Desert Classic Charities. That group hosts an annual PGA golf event. Doug Band, a Clinton Foundation adviser and Bill Clinton's longtime assistant, was on the board of directors of that organization through 2014, according to its IRS filings. Desert Classic Charities effectively returned that donation back into the Clinton orbit. Its 2015 tax filing shows that it contributed $700,000 to the Clinton Foundation for work on obesity programs. The group handed out $1.6 million in grants that whole year.

The Clinton Foundation dispenses contracts to Clinton cronies like Doug Band while also paying for the non-political travel of the Clintons and staffers. It's all perfectly legal -- and disgustingly unethical. The Foundation is used as a slush fund that enriches friends of the Clintons while allowing foreign businesses and governments to purchase influence.

I doubt this story will get much play beyond the conservative net. It might cast Hillary in a bad light, and we can't have that when the press now sees that it has a holy quest to keep Donald Trump from winning.

But you would think after what they wrote about Mitt Romney's charitable giving, they'd at least give the appearance of balance:

Romney paid $1.9 million in taxes and gave $4 million in charity on income of $14 million. But many liberal commentators criticized the Republican because a majority of those charitable contributions went to the Mormon church. Another chunk went to a foundation controlled by his family. The Nation, a far-left magazine, published an article entitled "Romney's Ungenerous Donations." Mother Jones, another liberal publication, published several articles skewering Romney for giving to his own church. "Romney Tax Tips: 10 Ways to Stiff the IRS," is one such article. "Vetting Romney's $3 Million in Charity" is another.

We're used to this sort of media malpractice. Double standards are a specialty of the leftist press. But they're all too busy denying there's a problem with the Foundation to notice that Hillary Clinton believes that the #1 charitable cause in the world is herself and her husband.
