WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has stated that information they have found on Hillary Clinton shows the State Dept. arming jihadists - including ISIS and in Syria.

Clinton has repeatedly denied the claims.

Did she perjure herself when she told Sen. Rand Paul she had no clue what he was talking about?

Release the documents, WikiLeaks.

The country wants to know.

From Federalist Papers:

It's a part of the massive e-mail dump that Wikileaks has from Hillary Clinton. Assange claims that among the 1,700 emails just released, there is proof that - despite what she told Congress - she knew about the flow of weapons from Qatar to Libya and then to Syrian rebels and terrorists.

On the show "Democracy Now!" Assange explained what the whole point of the e-mail dump was:

JUAN GONZALEZ: Julian, I want to mention something else. In March, you launched a searchable archive for over 30,000 emails and email attachments sent to and from Hillary Clinton's private email server while she was secretary of state. The 50,547 pages of documents span the time from June 2010 to August 2014; 7,500 of the documents were sent by Hillary Clinton herself. The emails were made available in the form of thousands of PDFs by the U.S. State Department as the result of a Freedom of Information Act request. Why did you do this, and what's the importance, from your perspective, of being able to create a searchable base?

googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1481811813211-2'); });

JULIAN ASSANGE: Well, WikiLeaks has become the rebel library of Alexandria. It is the single most significant collection of information that doesn't exist elsewhere, in a searchable, accessible, citable form, about how modern institutions actually behave. And it's gone on to set people free from prison, where documents have been used in their court cases; hold the CIA accountable for renditions programs; feed into election cycles, which have resulted in the termination of, in some case--or contributed to the termination of governments, in some cases, taken the heads of intelligence agencies, ministers of defense and so on. So, you know, our civilization can only be as good as our knowledge of what our civilization is. We can't possibly hope to reform that which we do not understand.

googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1448050117784-4'); }); googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1464204305408-1'); });

So, those Hillary Clinton emails, they connect together with the cables that we have published of Hillary Clinton, creating a rich picture of how Hillary Clinton performs in office, but, more broadly, how the U.S. Department of State operates. So, for example, the disastrous, absolutely disastrous intervention in Libya, the destruction of the Gaddafi government, which led to the occupation of ISIS of large segments of that country, weapons flows going over to Syria, being pushed by Hillary Clinton, into jihadists within Syria, including ISIS, that's there in those emails. There's more than 1,700 emails in Hillary Clinton's collection, that we have released, just about Libya alone.
