Hillary Clinton's world just got a lot worse as several damning facts have just come to light that once again prove how unfit she is to become President, quite contrary to Obama's saying she would be the most prepared President ever.

Emails about to be leaked by Wikileaks apparently prove that she not only sold weapons to ISIS, but that she blatantly perjured herself while testifying about Benghazi.

During her testimony, Senator Rand Paul asks her about weapons being sold to rebels in Turkey or Libya.

Hillary's answer, as you saw in the video, is that she basically had no idea what he was even talking about.

In a recent interview, Assange says he is possession of over 1,700 emails that will clarify this and based on his comments, I would say it means that Hillary is about to be tied to yet another disastrous scandal.

Below is the actual transcript from the interview on Democracy Now (via Federalist Papers):

JUAN GONZALEZ: Julian, I want to mention something else. In March, you launched a searchable archive for over 30,000 emails and email attachments sent to and from Hillary Clinton's private email server while she was secretary of state.

The 50,547 pages of documents span the time from June 2010 to August 2014; 7,500 of the documents were sent by Hillary Clinton herself. The emails were made available in the form of thousands of PDFs by the U.S. State Department as the result of a Freedom of Information Act request. Why did you do this, and what's the importance, from your perspective, of being able to create a searchable base?

JULIAN ASSANGE: Well, WikiLeaks has become the rebel library of Alexandria. It is the single most significant collection of information that doesn't exist elsewhere, in a searchable, accessible, citable form, about how modern institutions actually behave.

And it's gone on to set people free from prison, where documents have been used in their court cases; hold the CIA accountable for renditions programs; feed into election cycles, which have resulted in the termination of, in some case--or contributed to the termination of governments, in some cases, taken the heads of intelligence agencies, ministers of defense and so on.

So, you know, our civilization can only be as good as our knowledge of what our civilization is. We can't possibly hope to reform that which we do not understand.

So, those Hillary Clinton emails, they connect together with the cables that we have published of Hillary Clinton, creating a rich picture of how Hillary Clinton performs in office, but, more broadly, how the U.S. Department of State operates.

So, for example, the disastrous, absolutely disastrous intervention in Libya, the destruction of the Gaddafi government, which led to the occupation of ISIS of large segments of that country, weapons flows going over to Syria, being pushed by Hillary Clinton, into jihadists within Syria, including ISIS, that's there in those emails. There's more than 1,700 emails in Hillary Clinton's collection, that we have released, just about Libya alone.

I will let you judge for yourself but to me, Hillary is going to take an almost unrecoverable hit when this information finally comes out.

Click here to get my DAILY Trump email newsletter free!!

Do you think Hillary sold weapons to terrorists and the lied about it? Should she be in jail? Please share this story on Facebook and tell us because we want to hear YOUR voice!
