OBAMA DECLARES HIS FAMILY WILL MOVE TO CANADA ALONG WITH 43% AMERICANS IF TRUMP IS ELECTED

OBAMA DECLARES HIS FAMILY WILL MOVE TO CANADA ALONG WITH 43% AMERICANS IF TRUMP IS ELECTED

There is one thing that Obama declares about Trump we are actually looking forward to!

For the first time ever, the current president admitted that he would consider moving to Canada if and when Donald Trump gets elected president in November.

The Ipsos poll, stated that 19 per cent of American respondents would "consider moving to Canada" in the same case scenario.These figures elevated among young respondents: 28 per cent age 18-34 would start thinking about moving.

But it's not just disgruntled anti-Trump supporters who would consider making the leap to the Great White North.

Fifteen per cent of respondents say they would consider moving if Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton became the next U.S. President. The number was higher among men as 19 per cent said they would consider immigrating.

The idle "Move to Canada" threat has appeared in previous election cycles, or in other cases like the adoption of gay marriage in all 50 states.

Julia Clark, a senior vice-president and pollster with Ipsos, says while people don't necessarily move following elections the threat gets at the heart of the anger on both sides of the political aisle in the U.S.

"I think it's a great question because what it really does is it gets under the skin of sort of the anger and the trepidation that the public is feeling about this upcoming electoral cycle," said Clark. "Republicans are very concerned about Clinton and Democrats are concerned about Trump."

"I think it's a very tongue-in-cheek question but it gets at a very serious issue."

Following the results from Super Tuesday, Google searches for "Move to Canada" spiked at 1,500 per cent. An Ontario immigration has said he has seen a steady stream of calls from U.S. residents looking to immigrate to Canada and a Cape Breton radio host created a website urging people to move to there.

Global News has also previously looked at a history of U.S. immigration to Canada following instances of people unhappy with U.S. politics.

Trump has dominated headlines with his controversial and off colour remarks during the Republican primaries, and continues to be the frontrunner after he swept to victory in Michigan and Mississippi. Meanwhile, Bernie Sanders pulled off a stunning victory in Michigan winning 67 per cent of the vote upsetting Clinton who lead in the polls by as much as 30 per cent in the polls.

"This election in particular has gotten people really hot under the collar," said Clark. "Clinton is a very divisive figure; Trump is an extraordinarily divisive figure. Both have garnered a great deal of antipathy in large swaths of the electorate, both within their own parties as well as opposition parties."

Obama: in 2012... "There were folks threatening to move."

The Obama's had been expected to stay in Washington DC at least until daughter Sasha had graduated from high school. However in the event Trump's elected,Obama told reporters that his family will likely move directly to Canada. "Their education system is clearly a lot better than ours anyway," he accepted, shaking his head. "Canadians would never elect someone as buffoonish and incompetent as Donald Trump, at least outside Toronto."

However a potential "President Trump" is not the Obama family's only reason for considering the move north of the border. According to the outgoing president, "Canada is clearly a much safer place for a black person, especially one who's surrounded by police 24/7."

Speaking in Washington Thursday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and President Barack Obama were asked for their thoughts on the Canada-U.S. relationship should Trump or Cruz win in November.

"I am absolutely certain that in 2012 when there was the possibility that I might be re-elected, there were folks threatening to go to Canada as well," said Obama. "One of the great things about a relationship like Canada and the United States is it transcends partisanship."

With him seemingly ruling out a move to Toronto, Obama also dismissed suggestions he could be tempted to move to Vancouver. "Honestly, I don't really think we can afford to buy a place in Vancouver on a former U.S. president's salary."
