Uncovered: Trump saved Indiana boy's life in 1984, voters touched Sponsored Link: Donald Trump wasn't thinking about running for President in 1984, but his heart was in the right place for one young boy's struggle with HIV and AIDS.Sponsored Link: Ryan White was infected with HIV when he was only 13 years old. He had hemophilia, a blood-clotting [...] 1003 August 9, 2016

Uncovered: Trump Pays For Florida Boy's Open Heart Surgery At Arnold Palmer Hospital Sponsored Link: Sponsored Link: In 2009 Golf legend Arnold Palmer invited some very special guests to tour his Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children and Winnie Palmer Hospital for Women & Babies last week. The 79-year-old was joined by Donald Trump, Chairman and CEO of the Trump Organization, and Stewart Rahr [...] 1003 August 9, 2016

Trump's First 3 Transition Dream Team Members Are Female, Gay & Black. Liberals Are Screaming. Sponsored Link: Donald Trump is a brilliant man. His taking back of the White House for the American people against the world globalists proved that. And now liberals are having a freak out of epic proportions because Trump just picked his first three transition team members, and its brilliant. Trump [...] 1003 August 9, 2016

Black Rifle Coffee Company BURNS Starbucks, Vows to Hire 10,000 Veterans Sponsored Link: Starbucks made it their mission to hire 10,000 refugees in the wake of Trump's exec. orders. Liberals bowed down and praised Starbucks, as expected. Conservatives took action protesting Starbucks and succeeded. Starbucks has since seen a HUGE drop in stock prices as angry patriots revolt against their un american promise.Sponsored Link: [...] 1003 August 9, 2016

Bikers For Trump Ride Again, This Time To DC In January For Inauguration Day Sponsored Link: Sponsored Link: Bikers For Trump, the rough tumbling group of bikers who followed President Trump along the campaign trail ensuring his supporters safely made it into his rallies, will be riding one more time. This time it's to Washington DC on Inauguration Day, to make sure [...] 1003 August 9, 2016

Vote: Should Trump hang a cross in the White House after the Obamas leave? Sponsored Link: Vote now: Do you think it would be appropriate for Donald Trump to hang a cross in the White House to honor God, and to celebrate the Christian faith and let Americans know God is back?Sponsored Link: Many are now saying Trump was actually prophesied in the [...] 1003 August 9, 2016

VOTE NOW: Should the new FOX CEO fire Shep Smith for his outrageous shenanigans? Sponsored Link: Results of this poll will be emailed directly to the new FOX Ceo:Sponsored Link: The new CEO is shaking up FOX news, and he has been receiving calls and emails from people who want Shepherd Smith off the air, forever. Right after Hillary Clinton's big speech attacking Donald Trump [...] 1003 August 9, 2016

Intel Institute: Trump's IQ is 156, Hillary's is tiny, Obama's is the worst in history Sponsored Link: Intelligence professors at a prominent think thank have weighed in: Barack Obama has the lowest IQ of any President in United States history, which explains why he has been such a failure, and why he endorsed fellow low IQ member Hillary Clinton.Sponsored Link: The Report: Want [...] 1003 August 9, 2016

Developing: McCain caught funneling money from vets to Syrian Refugees Sponsored Link: A bombshell report appeared today, showing Senator John McCain's shocking use of veteran money that is causing many Veterans to see red: money that should be going to Vets are going to refugees.Sponsored Link: McCain is backing an amendment proposed by democrats that would increase the amount [...] 1003 August 9, 2016
