Monday, August 8, the Hal Turner Show published what it claims to be Hillary Clinton's medical records, from her personal physician, Dr. Lisa R. Bardack.

According to Dr. Bardack, Hillary has a form of dementia called Subcortical Vascular Dementia, as well as worsening and more frequent black-outs, uncontrollable twitching, memory loss and brain seizures (Complex Partial Seizures) from a concussion sustained in early December of 2012 while she was secretary of state.

Neither the dementia nor the seizures are curable, but will progressively worsen.

I can confirm that there is a Lisa R. Bardack, M.D., who is the Director of Internal Medicine at Mount Sinai Health System at CareMount Medical. Her specialty is internal medicine. Her office address is 90 S Bedford Rd, Mt Kisco, NY 10549; phone number is 914-242-1370.

She is highly regarded and is the recipient of two awards:

Best Doctors in America, 2011-2016

Castle Connolly Top Doctor: 2016

According to a December 31, 2012 ABC News report, Dr. Lisa Bardack was one of Hillary's attending physicians when she was hospitalized after sustaining a concussion from hitting her head when she fainted because of dehydration from a stomach virus.

It was Dr. Bardack of the Mt. Kisco Medical Group and Dr. Gigi El-Bayoumi of George Washington University who discovered a clot during a routine follow-up MRI. The blood clot, cerebral venous thrombosis, had formed in Hillary's right transverse venous sinus, one of the major veins that drains the brain. A transverse sinus thrombosis is uncommon but potentially "life-threatening" in that the backup of blood flow could have caused a stroke or hemorrhage, even leading to death.

What is Subcortical Vascular Dementia?

According to the National institutes of Health (NIH):

Binswanger's disease (BD), also called subcortical vascular dementia, is a type of dementia caused by widespread, microscopic areas of damage to the deep layers of white matter in the brain. The damage is the result of the thickening and narrowing (atherosclerosis) of arteries that feed the subcortical areas of the brain. Atherosclerosis (commonly known as "hardening of the arteries") is a systemic process that affects blood vessels throughout the body. It begins late in the fourth decade of life and increases in severity with age. As the arteries become more and more narrowed, the blood supplied by those arteries decreases and brain tissue dies.... The symptoms associated with BD are related to the disruption of subcortical neural circuits that control what neuroscientists call executive cognitive functioning: short-term memory, organization, mood, the regulation of attention, the ability to act or make decisions, and appropriate behavior. The most characteristic feature of BD is psychomotor slowness - an increase in the length of time it takes, for example, for the fingers to turn the thought of a letter into the shape of a letter on a piece of paper. Other symptoms include forgetfulness (but not as severe as the forgetfulness of Alzheimer's disease), changes in speech, an unsteady gait, clumsiness or frequent falls, changes in personality or mood (most likely in the form of apathy, irritability, and depression), and urinary symptoms that aren't caused by urological disease....

The outlook is poor: Subcortical Vascular Dementia "is a progressive disease; there is no cure."

There is no specific course of treatment for BD. Treatment is symptomatic. People with depression or anxiety may require antidepressant medications such as the serotonin-specific reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) sertraline or citalopram. Atypical antipsychotic drugs, such as risperidone and olanzapine, can be useful in individuals with agitation and disruptive behavior. Recent drug trials with the drug memantine have shown improved cognition and stabilization of global functioning and behavior. The successful management of hypertension and diabetes can slow the progression of atherosclerosis, and subsequently slow the progress of BD. Because there is no cure, the best treatment is preventive, early in the adult years, by controlling risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes, and smoking.

Note: The Hal Turner Show is a radio show of a man named Harold Charles "Hal" Turner, 54, whom Wikipedia describes as a "white nationalist, Holocaust denier, and blogger from North Bergen, New Jersey". A paid FBI informant, in August 2010 Turner "was convicted for making threats against three federal judges with the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals."

Admittedly, the alleged medical records of Hillary look suspicious: for one, there is no letter-head. But if they are genuine, Hillary's dementia and brain seizures absolutely disqualify her from being President.

Interviewed on InfoWars, psychiatrist and former deputy assistant secretary of state Dr. Steve Piecenik, 72, affirms the medical records:

See also:

H/t Barry Soetoro Esq.

~Eowyn

Dr. Eowyn's post first appeared at Fellowship of the Minds
