819 SHARES Share Tweet

Hillary Clinton's medical records have been leaked to the public and they may prove to be devastating for her career. According to her Doctor, Mrs. Clinton suffers from "Dementia, Seizures and Black-outs." In fact, the Doctor even made noted that Hillary's conditions have gotten "considerably worse" since 2013.

Fir a long time people have suspected that Hillary suffers from some form of mental problems based on her strange and unpredictable actions, which can be seen in the above video.

Now, these behaviors are on full display after her much sort after medical records have finally been leaked.



Hillary's diagnoses, as stated in the above document, is complex partial seizures and subcortical vascular dementia.

SVD is caused by widespread microscopic areas of damage to the brain which then result in a thickening and narrowing (atherosclerosis) of arteries that supply blood to the subcortical areas of the brain. This condition is also known as "Binswanger's disease (BD)."

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) offers the following insight and definition about this condition;

What is Binswanger's Disease?

Binswanger's disease (BD), also called subcortical vascular dementia, is a type of dementia caused by widespread, microscopic areas of damage to the deep layers of white matter in the brain. The damage is the result of the thickening and narrowing (atherosclerosis) of arteries that feed the subcortical areas of the brain. Atherosclerosis (commonly known as "hardening of the arteries") is a systemic process that affects blood vessels throughout the body. It begins late in the fourth decade of life and increases in severity with age. As the arteries become more and more narrowed, the blood supplied by those arteries decreases and brain tissue dies. A characteristic pattern of BD-damaged brain tissue can be seen with modern brain imaging techniques such as CT scans or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The symptoms associated with BD are related to the disruption of subcortical neural circuits that control what neuroscientists call executive cognitive functioning: short-term memory, organization, mood, the regulation of attention, the ability to act or make decisions, and appropriate behavior. The most characteristic feature of BD is psychomotor slowness - an increase in the length of time it takes, for example, for the fingers to turn the thought of a letter into the shape of a letter on a piece of paper. Other symptoms include forgetfulness (but not as severe as the forgetfulness of Alzheimer's disease), changes in speech, an unsteady gait, clumsiness or frequent falls, changes in personality or mood (most likely in the form of apathy, irritability, and depression), and urinary symptoms that aren't caused by urological disease. Brain imaging, which reveals the characteristic brain lesions of BD, is essential for a positive

Is there any treatment?

There is no specific course of treatment for BD. Treatment is symptomatic. People with depression or anxiety may require antidepressant medications such as the serotonin-specific reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) sertraline or citalopram. Atypical antipsychotic drugs, such as risperidone and olanzapine, can be useful in individuals with agitation and disruptive behavior. Recent drug trials with the drug memantine have shown improved cognition and stabilization of global functioning and behavior. The successful management of hypertension and diabetes can slow the progression of atherosclerosis, and subsequently slow the progress of BD. Because there is no cure, the besttreatment is preventive, early in the adult years, by controlling risk factors such as hypertension,diabetes, and smoking.

What is the prognosis?

BD is a progressive disease; there is no cure. Changes may be sudden or gradual and then progress in a stepwise manner. BD can often coexist with Alzheimer's disease. Behaviors that slow the progression of high blood pressure, diabetes, and atherosclerosis -- such as eating a healthy dietand keeping healthy wake/sleep schedules, exercising, and not smoking or drinking too much alcohol -- can also slow the progression of BD.

What research is being done?

The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to BD in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure neurological disorders, such as BD.

So what does this mean for the election?

Hillary Clinton is mentally unfit to run for president... literally.

Someone with these issues needs to be placed under professional supervision and care, not given the ability to run an entire country, and with it the potential to start nuclear war. The position she is running for is not just mentally demanding, it's also one of great responsibility.

The next thing we need, is to find out what's Donald Trump's mental diagnoses. Clearly that man is mentally unstable too.

You have permission to republish this article under a Creative Commons license with attribution to Choice and Truth

Sources;

Hal Turner Show

Paul Joseph Watson
