When you're in the public image there is no secret that you can keep, heaven knows Hillary has tried. This is yet another important piece of information voters have the right to know, regardless if it's about Hillary's personal health issues. Would you want to vote for someone who can't do their job correctly because they're too sick? Let's spread this around so people have an idea just who they are inviting into the White house...she's pretty much a walking corpse.

FOX News' Sean Hannity sets up the photo and the Clinton response:

The picture, which shows Hillary Clinton apparently needing assistance to climb a flight of stairs at a campaign stop back in February was picked up by the Drudge Report, which posted this headline over the weekend, details Hillary Clinton's history with falls and speculating that the former Secretary of State could be experiencing a serious undisclosed medical condition.

Earlier today we reached out to the Clinton campaign for a statement, and a spokesman told us that the Drudge Report is shameful, and anyone who buys into that medical condition shameful, what is missing is a statement about the health issues.

Dr. Marc Seigel said "the public has a right to know" and speculated on what the issue could be but was more interested in previous spills and a concussion she had in 2012.

"I think the public has a right to know," Seigel said. "We're talking in 2008, Sean, I looked over a thousand pages of John McCain's records because of a melanoma he had 10 years ago. What about Hillary? In 2009, a severe fall. She breaks her elbow. In 2011, she boards a plane, falls. In 2012 she has a severe concussion which Bill Clinton says took her six months to recover from.

"Then she ends up with a blood-clot in the brain and a lifetime of blood thinners," Seigel said. "Just that point alone -- if she's prone to falling, you can see from that picture up there that it looked like she can barely get upstairs without two people carrying her. Guess what if she falls and hits her head? She'll get a blood-clot."

"I want to know what her neurological records show," he added.

"The picture going up the stairs speaks a million words," Dr. David Samadi said. "Is she fatigued? Is she dehydrated? One of the main reasons she fell in 2012 and had the concussions was severe dehydration. They're holding her and going up the stairs. So she may be really dehydrated, she may have arthritis, she may have back pain, she may have fallen again. We don't know. There are questions that are unanswered. What we know today is she's on thyroid medication, she suffers from hypothyroid, low thyroid, that can cause fatigue and gaining weight and all of that."
