Home >> Activism, Breaking News, Communism, North America, Politics, Videos >> Michael Moore Endorses Donald Trump, Visits Wikileaks Julian Assange

Michael Moore must have read our previous story "Why Should Bernie Sanders Socialists Vote Donald Trump?" where we make the case and prove that Trump himself is a true socialist and that the current spoiled brat SJW movement in America has nothing to do with real communism because dictators like Lenin or Stalin would break their freaking legs if they were living in the USSR during that time period.

Socialist dictators were authoritarian, disciplined leaders who would not tolerate that kind of behavior. Furthermore in that article we also make the point that Trump is endorsed by many current communist and former communist countries unlike Hillary who has only Arab support. Trump is endorsed by Russia, China, North Korea, Serbia, Czech Republic, Zimbabwe and Hungary! All of them communist countries and former communist. Its a really good article and you should definitely read it and share it to your Bernie Sanders friends.

This comes as Trump is now finally gaining more support among socialists are finally opening their eyes and seeing that GOP was right when they blasted Trump with their "Trump is not a true conservative" rhetoric. They are right, he isn't! He's a conservative/socialist. His like a strange combination of Ted Cruz and Bernie Sanders.

To those who may say that this is out of context or whatever other bla bla, we remind everyone that not only Michael Moore endorsed Trump but he called on his fellow Bernie voters to vote for Trump on November 8th with this one single line: "The enemy of my enemy is who I'm voting for on November 8th." at minute 3:12

It's a stunning prediction: America will deliver the "biggest 'F-- you' ever recorded in human history" and put GOP nominee Donald Trump in the White House this November.

That's according to leftist activist and filmmaker Michael Moore, who made the statements in a fiery video clip from his latest documentary, "Trumpland." Moore reveals exactly why many "hurting" Americans, both Democrat and Republican, find the billionaire appealing.

"Donald Trump came to the Detroit Economic Club and stood there in front of the Ford Motor executives and said, 'If you close these factories as you're planning to do in Detroit and build them in Mexico, I'm going to put a 35 percent tariff on those cars when you send them back. And nobody's gonna buy them.' It was an amazing thing to see. No politician - Republican or Democrat - had ever said anything like that to these executives. And it was music to the ears of people in Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, the Brexit states," Moore begins.

"Whether Trump means it or not is kind of irrelevant because he's saying the things to people who are hurting. And it's why every beaten-down, nameless, forgotten working stiff who used to be part of what was called the middle class loves Trump.

"He is the human Molotov cocktail that they've been waiting for. The human hand grenade that they can legally throw into the system that stole their lives from them.

Like the reporting you see here? Sign up for free news alerts from WND.com, America's independent news network.

"And on November 8th, Election Day - although they've lost their jobs, although they've been foreclosed on by the bank, next came the divorce and now the wife and kids are gone, the car has been repo'd, they haven't had a real vacation in years, they're stuck with the s-tty Obamacare Bronze plan where you can't even get a f--ing Percocet - they've essentially lost everything they had.

"Except one thing. The one thing that doesn't cost them a cent and is guaranteed to them by the American Constitution: the right to vote."

"They might be penniless. They might be homeless. They might be f--ed over and f--ed up. It doesn't matter. Because it's equalized on that day. A millionaire has the same number of votes as the person without a job - one. And there's more of a former middle class than there are in the millionaire class.

"So on November 8th, the dispossessed will walk into the voting booth, be handed a ballot, close the curtain and take that lever, or felt pen, or touch screen and put a big f--ing X in the box by the name of the man who has threatened to upend and overturn the very system that has ruined their lives. Donald J. Trump.

"They see that the elites, who ruined their lives, hate Trump. Corporate America hates Trump. Wall Street hates Trump. The career politicians hate Trump. The media hate Trump - after they loved him and created him and now hate him. Thank you, media. The enemy of my enemy is who I'm voting for on November 8th.

"Yes, on November 8th, you - Joe Blow, Steve Blow, Bob Blow, Bill Blow, Billy Bob Blow, all the Blows - get to go and blow up the whole G-d damn system because it's your right.

"Trump's election is going to be the biggest 'F-- you' ever recorded in human history.

"And it will feel good."

Michael Moore Visit Julian Assange at the Ecuadorian Embassy

Nonetheless, Moore, who previously endorsed Bernie Sanders for president, spends the second half of his film urging Americans to vote for Democratic Party nominee Hillary Clinton. At the end, he jokingly announces his candidacy for 2020 and promises voters he'll give them free marijuana and banana splits.

Michael Moore has also visited Wikileaks Julian Assange at the Ecuadorian Embassy and defended him, publicly asked Obama to pardon Assange and set him free because after all Assange even though he's free, he's not really free. He's like in a prison. Basically Julian Assange has already served 4-years in jail/Ecuadorian Embassy.

Julian Assange is currently busy dumping and leaking on Hillary Clinton! With Podesta emails of course... what were you thinking??? Check out the video below:

Based on WND

VN:F [1.9.22_1171]

please wait... Rating: 4.7/5 (3 votes cast)

, 4.7 out of 5 based on 3 ratings



















RELATED ARTICLES

Did you like this information? Then please consider making a donation or subscribing to our Newsletter.
