FBI Agent Behind Hillary Email Leaks Found Dead In Murder Suicide 0 November 5, 2016

FBI Agent Suspected in Hillary Email Leaks Found Dead in Apparent Murder-Suicide.

Archived here as this story will likely be removed or altered.

Full Text: (Fair Use for historical and other exceptions).

FBI Agent Suspected in Hillary Email Leaks Found Dead in Apparent Murder-Suicide Walkerville, MD - An FBI agent believed to be responsible for the latest email leaks "pertinent to the investigation" into Hillary Clinton's private email server while she was Secretary of State, was found dead in an apparent murder-suicide early Saturday morning, according to police. Investigators believe FBI agent, Michael Brown, 45, shot and killed his 33-year-old wife, Susan Brown, late Friday night before setting the couple's home on fire and then turning the gun on himself. Brown was a 12 year veteran of the Washington D.C. Metropolitan Police Department before spending the last six years in the FBI. Neighbors saw smoke coming from the Brown residence and called 9-1-1 at approximately 11:50 p.m. By the time fire crews arrived on scene minutes later, the entire house was engulfed in flames. "Mrs. Brown's death was caused by a gunshot wound prior to the house fire," Walkerville Police Chief Pat Frederick said, "while Mr. Brown's single-bullet head wound appears to have been self-inflicted." "The totality of the evidence leads us to believe this is a murder-suicide. We believe he killed her, set the house on fire and then took his own life," Frederick said. The findings support conclusions by investigators Saturday that the couple perished in a murder-suicide during which the 4,000-square foot house was intentionally set on fire. Authorities outlined a likely scenario based on interviews with neighbors and comments posted on Mr. Brown's Facebook page. Brown is believed to have started the gasoline-fueled fire but spared the life of his beloved beagle, Dixie. "Prior to the fire, he dropped off the dog at a neighbor's house," Frederick said. "He put the dog in a neighbor's backyard." A neighbor told WHAG that Brown appeared "panicked" though it is unclear whether his wife was dead before or after the dog was removed from their home. The motive behind the killing is still being investigated, but police say Brown was a highly respected agent with the FBI and very well liked in the community. "What leads someone to this level of anger and violence with your wife, your loved one, who knows," said an FBI official who knew the Brown family. Conspiracy theories are running rampant throughout many alt. right media outlets, leading many to believe this was another "hit job" by the Clintons in retaliation for the FBI email leaks so close to the presidential election. Media outlets like Alex Jones' Infowars and WND are running with the theory that globalist assassins, working for the Clintons, had the Brown family murdered and their home burned to destroy any possible evidence. FBI Director James Comey refused to comment at this time but asked for privacy and prayer as the bureau comes to terms with losing "two very close friends." This is a developing story. Source: The Denver Guardian

Update 2:

Spoiler alert!

If you have been given an assignment on Fake News read no further.

Update 1, which follows below, is a spoiler for your assignment.

Update: As originally noted HNN archived this story as it was likely to have historical significance and it was likely to be taken down or altered.

This story has since been taken down from the Denver Guardian, which is now reported to be a hoax news site. The original story is a fake news story and is archived here because the story, despite being fake, now has a confirmed historical importance. The original Denver Guardian article has been named #4 on the top 50 political fake news stories of 2016 by Buzz Feed.

This of course comes as U.S. Intelligence agencies continue to allege Russia engaged in a campaign to influence public opinion while offering no proof of their claims,which is a separate news story of historical significance by itself. Regardless, U.S. intelligence agencies continue to claim that fake news stories, such as the Denver Guardian article archived here, were part of a concerted campaign of Russian propaganda with goals to "undermine public faith in the US democratic process, denigrate Secretary Clinton, and harm her electability and potential presidency."

From BuzzFeed:
