Editor's note: You are viewing Morning News USA's Debunked section. This section contains news that we have investigated and uncovered to be fake news, satire news, hoaxes and urban legends.

FBI agent Michael Brown, one of the investigating detectives on the case of vetting Hillary's deleted emails, has allegedly killed his wife and himself. Did the DNC take necessary steps to suppress Hillary Clinton's scandals?

The corpses of Michael Brown, 45, and his wife, 33, were found last Saturday in their residence, which was ablaze when police arrived at the scene.

Brown, who served 12 years in Washington D.C. Metropolitan Police Department before joining the FBI, was reported by a website called Denver Guardian to have shot his wife and then set fire to his house before killing himself.

Read Also: Hillary Clinton Murdered Seth Rich? Journalist Hints At Patterns

The shocking news gave way to another surprising twist in the tale.

FBI director James Comey, who had reopened the investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails after Anthony Weiner was caught sexting a minor using Huma Abedin's computer, announced on Sunday that the FBI will not be pressing criminal charges against Secretary Clinton.

"During that process we reviewed all of the communications that were to or from Hillary Clinton while she was Secretary of State. Based on our review, we have not changed our conclusion that we expressed in July with respect to Secretary Clinton," concluded Comey, reported Radar Online.

Read Also: Seth Rich Murder - Hillary Wanted Him In Campaign Days Before His Death

Was this an honest statement by the FBI, or was James Comey afraid of meeting the same fate as his fellow comrade Michael Brown?

As it turns out, the news of Michael Brown's death was falsified and has since been debunked by Snopes. Denver Guardian, which published the news, is nothing more than a fake news site hiding under a pretext of a city newspaper.

The news that the FBI will soon be shutting down investigations into Hillary Clinton's emails, yet again, however, checks out.

It still waits to be seen if DNC plans to sue James Comey after the elections, since the reopening of investigations close to November 8 has had pretty grave ramifications where the polls are concerned.

For the latest Hillary Clinton News, please stay tuned in to this site.

Read Also: Seth Rich WikiLeaks Informant - Julian Assange Hints At Hillary Murder Theory
