The biggest story right now is that Hillary is connected to a massive child sex ring that is tied up in the highest tiers of Washington D.C. and it's not really surprising. Sickening, but not surprising.

Huma Abedin, Bill Clinton, Anthony Weiner, and many, many others all have numerous articles out against them right now for various crimes yet they all seem to lead back to this one sex ring.

The NYPD and the FBI are all leaking info to the American people as quickly as they can, the only question is whether we can get the people to listen.



As Mad World News reported:

Wild rumors began flying several days ago as to what's in the contents of these 650,000 Weiner emails. The story involving Hillary and the Clinton Foundation actually began back in July, after an anonymous FBI informant began posting to the online message board frequently used by anonymous hackers, known as 4chan.

The informant explained how the email server from Hillary's previous email investigation wasn't the "real prize," but how the focus should be on the Clinton Foundation, who's at the center of a pedophile ring that involves sickos within the United States and foreign countries as well.

"The real point of interest is the Clinton Foundation, not the e-mail server. We received the server from Benghazi, then from the server we found data on the Clinton Foundation. Then we realized the situation is much worse than previously thought," the informant said.

One person responded: "Ok. Do tell. What about the human trafficking? I assume that those who can be indicted are involved."

"Pedophiles and sex traffickers everywhere. Many politicians trade girls like cattle," The FBI informant responds.

"Sex rings are popular in all governments, but pedophilia is primarily in British parliament & Saudi Arabia, and that's why HRC and Bill Clinton love foreign donors so much. They get paid in children as well as money," the informant responds. "Dig deep and you can find it. It will sicken you."

In addition to several insiders within the NYPD validating these bombshell allegations, now a former U.S Department State official by the name of Steve Pieczenik is stepping forward to corroborate these claims. In the following video that Pieczenik published on Tuesday, the former state official testifies that information in Weiner's emails implicates the Clintons in a pedophile ring in Washington, D.C.

"We know that both of them have been a major part and participant of what is called the 'Lolita Express', which is a plane owned by Jeffrey Epstein - a wealthy multimillionaire - who flies down to the Bahamas and allows Bill Clinton and Hillary to engage in sex with minors," Pieczenik explains.

"As a result of the excellent work that the New York Police Department guys in tracking pedophiliacs, they also have a record of both Hillary and Bill and other people associated with the Clintons with regards to Pedophilia," Pieczenik goes on to indicate the charges that will be filed against many who are involved. "Not only will she be charged with obstruction of justice, with lying to a prosector in the FBI, she will also be charged with pedophilia."

Even more disturbing info is in this second video:

Could this be what prompted the FBI to reopen their investigation against Hillary? Right now there's reports swirling that the FBI is pushing for an indictment for something horrendous going on in the Clinton Foundation. Only time will tell.
