The leaked emails destroyed Hillary Clinton, and she's dedicated her time on destroying the people who released the leak. Why would she do so? Hillary shouldn't be afraid of the justice. It's something you get after being busted for your crimes. She thought that she could run forever.

Isn't it terrifying that people who release the emails die shortly after the leak? This isn't a coincidence, people. People are dying for doing the right thing. For caring about the country. is it a crime? No, crime is something you do against the country.

Via Freedom Daily

It's been reported by ETF news, that FBI agent, Michael Brown murdered wife, Susan Brown late Friday night then set their home on fire before turning the gun on himself.

FBI agent believed to be responsible for the latest email leaks "pertinent to the investigation" into the democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's private email server while she was Secretary of State, was found dead in an apparent murder-suicide early Saturday morning, according to police. Crazy right? I am sure "it is just a coincidence"! I mean what else could it be? Shame on the dems, shame on them for using the name "democratic". I know a man who is a bit more democratic than them, he is the president of North Korea, maybe you know him too. He has some similar methods of silencing people, but a bit more subtle than the democrats in America.

Brown was a 12-yr veteran of the D.C. Metropolitan PD before becoming an FBI agent 6 years ago.

Concerned neighbors had called 911 as soon as they saw smoke coming from the Brown residence. The entire home had been engulfed in flames before emergency crews could arrive.

"Mrs. Brown's death was caused by a gunshot wound prior to the house fire," Walkerville Police Chief Pat Frederick said, "while Mr. Brown's single-bullet head wound appears to have been self-inflicted."

"The totality of the evidence leads us to believe this is a murder-suicide. We believe he killed her, set the house on fire and then took his own life," Frederick said.

Conclusions of the investigation report came out on Saturday. Stating that the couple had died in a murder-suicide. Oddly enough, before the fire, Brown had taken his beloved beagle, Dixie and put her in a neighbor's backyard upon his neighbor's approval.

This same neighbor reported that Brown did appear to be "panicked" however it was unclear whether or not Brown's wife had been dead before he decided to drop the dog off.

As for the the motive of the killing, apparently it is still be investigated. Brown has been described as a highly respected agent with the FBI who was reported to be very well liked in the community he lived in.

This is what has been reported by ETF news.

This Nation has turned into madness, and it's become very hard to recognize truths now. Pray for discernment. Nothing can be taken at face value anymore...not in Obama's America.

Will this ever end? Probably yes, but only when Hillary ends behind bars. People are afraid to speak the truth because they can end up dead. We truly understand this, but the Dems can't keep harassing people. It's undemocratic.

What do you think about this? Comment bellow and share this story on Facebook or Twitter to spread the truth.
