The latest Wikileaks dump on John Podesta, the head of Clinton's presidential campaign, former Bill Clinton White House Chief of Staff, and Obama Councillor, reveals that John Podesta was invited to a "spirit cooking dinner" by Marina Abramovic.

advertisement - advertisement - learn more

Abramovic is a Serbian performance artist based in New York, whose parents held high positions within the Yugoslavian government, so it's not really a surprise that she seems to be in contact with the Podesta's.

This network of power is worldwide.

The email shows a request to Tony Podesta, John's brother. Abramovic says, "I am so looking forward to the Spirit Cooking dinner at my place. Do you think you will be able to let me know if your brother is joining?"

It then shows Tony emailing John asking him if he is available.

It's dated June 28th, 2015 and you can read the full email from Wikileaks here.

advertisement - advertisement - learn more

What is Spirit Cooking?

Visit Wikileaks' twitter.

Apparently, "the origins of Spirit Cooking can be found in Cake of Light, a sacrament in the religion of Thelema which was founded by Aleister Crowley. The ingredients of the Cake of Light include honey, oil, menstrual blood and sperm. The sacrament is meant to symbolize the union between the microcosm, Man, and the macrocosm, the Divine, which is a representation of one of the prime maxims in Hermeticism "As Above, So Below." The consumption of the Cake of Light is a fulfillment of the sacred circle of the connection between Man and the Divine. "

Magic In The Occult

In Occultism, (the magic, alchemy, extra-sensory perception, astrology, spiritualism, religion, and divination), it's not hard for a 'student of occultism' to tell which powerful groups are dabbling in black magic and which are not. For example, inverting sacred symbols of ancient origin that represent something "pure" is one of many signs.

Some of these people could be ones we idolize and/or consider famous. We are encouraged to worship them and be like them.

Based on my years of research, I've come to believe that various 'famous' people and politicians are used by the higher-ups. These higher-ups or elite are also in major areas that dominate our health, finance, education, and energy industries (to name a few). Higher than that include the big banks and more.

Your Inbox Will Never Be The Same Inspiration and all our best content, straight to your inbox.

It's not a strange thing to hear about black magic occult rituals happening amongst those we consider as "the elite."

For example, Ted Gunderson, former FBI special agent and head of their L.A. office, did a lot of work uncovering and exposing this type of thing. A simple youtube search of his name will show you what exactly he spent his last years researching (source). Here's one of his last lectures.

In ancient Atlantis and Egypt, ceremonial rituals and white magic were commonly used. According to Manly P Hall, "The ceremonial magic of antiquity was not evil, there arose from its perversion several false schools of sorcery, or black magic." (The Secret Teachings of All Ages, An Encyclopedic Outline of Masonic, Hermetic, Qabbalistic and Rosicrucian Symbolical Philosophy, page 315) (source 2)

Hall, who is widely recognized as one of the world's leading scholars in the fields of religion, mythology, mysticism, and the occult, emphasizes in his book that, "The black magicians completely dominated national affairs, with the result that humanity still suffers from the sophistries of the priest crafts of Atlantis and Egypt."

Atlantis was no joke and is the subject of very serious inquiry from multiple scholars. (Source, starting on page 219). You can read more of our published articles regarding Atlantis here.

Hall also wrote about how these Black Magicians believed they were justified and were convinced that they were doing the right thing.

I am not saying Podesta is a Black Magician, but given all of the evidence out there, all of the inverted symbols that represent the perversion of magic and rituals alongside this email, it's safe to say that these types of things are a regular occurrence.

Based on my research, politicians and other 'famous' people are considered very low-level members of secret societies, even though they're made to believe that they are in the upper-levels.

If this is the stuff Podesta is involved in, imagine what the 'higher-ups' do?

What Was The Response?

Abramovic stated that she is "outraged" and that this is taken completely out of context, stating that it was just a "normal dinner" and a normal menu that she just happens to call spirit cooking.

She said there was "no blood" or "anything else, we just call things funny names, that's all."

It's funny that she calls her spirit cooking, and that she has performed Spirit Cooking and a number of museums around the world during the 90s, painting graffiti with pigs blood. (source)
