A shocking new revelation found within the latest Wikileaks email releases shows a dark satanic cult has infiltrated the circle of people surrounding Hillary Clinton.

In a Wikileaks email, Tony Podesta (John Podesta's brother) is invited to a "Spirit Cooking" dinner at the house of a Serbian performance artist named Marina Abramovic.

Abramovic first sends Tony the following email:

Dear Tony, I am so looking forward to the spirit cooking dinner at my place. Do you think you will be able to let me know if your brother is joining? All my love, Marina

The email is then forwarded by Tony to his brother, John Podesta.

Are you in NYC Thursday July 9

Marina wants you to come to dinner

Mary?

The email seems to be directed at Mary Podesta, John Podesta's wife, but who exactly is Marina Abramovic?

While looking up more information on this Serbian artist, you find a graphical book she created called "Spirit Cooking". We will look at the contents of this book later, but first here is a video documenting the process involved in preparing for one of these feasts.

The video features Marina Abramovic with a paintbrush and a bucket of red costume paint meant to resemble blood. The video is rather long and void of any sort of meaningful dialogue, but displays a cryptic view as she paints satanic style recipes on the walls of the room.

The "Spirit Cooking" book, authored by Abramovic, contains more of the same dark recipes written in a form of cryptic poetry.

According to the title page, the book contains "essential aphrodisiac recipes". Commonly, aphrodisiacs are used to enhance a person's sexual experience. However, the recipes in this book sound far different than any of the traditional remedies like romantic candles or tantalizing smells from the burning of incense.

One of the recipes includes a week long regiment of isolation and purification for each participant followed by a 3 day sexual escapade.

7 days without eating

7 days without talking

7 days without sleeping

7 days without sexual intercourse

7 dyas not reading or writing

7 days not watching television

7 days not answering the telephone or fax



On the 7th day

take a bath in almond oil

eat one coriander seed

one almond

one spoon of honey with royal jelly

engage in intercourse with partner

who went through the same process

for 3 days and 3 nights

drink each other's nectars

postpone climax

until the last hour before sunrise

on the third day

These emails give insight into the weird sex parties that the Podesta brothers involved themselves in, but does that necessarily reflect on Hillary Clinton?

Back in August, Fury News revealed how a former Hillary hit-man confessed his intimate knowledge that she often attended a witch's coven once a month while Bill Clinton was president. We also know that she is a founding member of the Belesian Grove society, a female counterpart to the satanic Bohemian Grove society for men.

Are these the kind of people that the American majority wants skirting the halls of the White House? Will they perform these oddly satanic rituals in the Oval Office? With only days left in the race to the White House, we will soon find out.

H/T [YourNewsWire]
