Advertisement

For many years, millions of Americans have known that Hillary Clinton does not care about anyone but herself. She will sell off American resources so long as she gets paid for it.

WikiLeaks leader, Julian Assange, has promised to release thousands of emails that Hillary Clinton deleted as well as emails proving her foundation was corrupt. Assange released a PDF document yesterday showing that Hillary Clinton was pushing to arm jihadists in Syria, including ISIS.

Yes, ISIS. You read that correctly.

Advertisement

During Hillary Clinton's testimony during the congressional Benghazi hearings in 2013, Clinton astutely denied under oath having any knowledge of the weapons trade program with Syrian rebels that took place a year before the Benghazi attack.

Assange says that in the collection of hacked emails his group has in their possession, 17,000 are "about Libya alone," and among them is proof that Clinton pushed for weapons to be sent to "jihadists within Syria, including ISIS."

"So, those Hillary Clinton emails, they connect together with the cables that we have published of Hillary Clinton, creating a rich picture of how Hillary Clinton performs in office, but, more broadly, how the U.S. Department of State operates," Assange added.

Advertisement

"So, for example, the disastrous, absolutely disastrous intervention in Libya, the destruction of the Gaddafi government, which led to the occupation of ISIS of large segments of that country, weapons flows going over to Syria, being pushed by Hillary Clinton, into jihadists within Syria, including ISIS, that's there in those emails. There's more than 1,700 emails in Hillary Clinton's collection, that we have released, just about Libya alone."

This not only proves that Hillary lied under oath, she also has the worst "experience" of anyone to ever run for president. She often touts her experience, but she doesn't have any successes to brag about. She accomplished nothing as Secretary of State.

Advertisement

During that testimony, Clinton told Sen. Rand Paul that she didn't have any information on any weapons transfer program with insurgent groups in Turkey or elsewhere run out of Libya.

Here is the exchange between Sen. Rand Paul and Hillary Clinton:

Paul: My question is, is the US involved in any procuring of weapons, transfer of weapons, buying, selling anyhow transferring weapons to Turkey out of Libya? Clinton: To Turkey? I'll have to take that question for the record. That's, nobody's ever raised that with me. Paul: It's been in news reports that ships have been leaving from Libya and that they may have weapons. And what I'd like to know is, that annex that was close by, were they involved with procuring, buying, selling, obtaining weapons and were any of these weapons being transferred to other countries? Any countries, Turkey included? Advertisement Clinton: Well, Senator you'll have to direct that question to the agency that ran the annex. And, I will see what information was available. Paul: You're saying you don't know? Clinton: I do not know. I don't have any information on that.

So, there's a big fat lie.

There is big news surrounding the upcoming leaks because Assange indicated that the information he has on Clinton could "proceed to an indictment."

Assange plans to release the new information proving Clinton's guilt in waves over the course of the next month. Please share this on Facebook to show the millions of undecided voters that Hillary is not worthy of holding office. She sold weapons to jihadi's and ISIS. That is treason.
