And if that wasn't enough Priests for Life issued the follow statement clarifying Cardinal Ratzinger's letter.

All six paragraphs of the letter plus half of the footnote make it clear that Catholics who support abortion by voting for pro-abortion candidates are cooperating in evil and may not receive Communion.

It continues:

It would be a mistake to interpret this teaching to mean that all issues are equal, and that a voter can choose a pro-abortion candidate because they don't like the pro-life candidate's position on capital punishment or war. Cardinal Ratzinger, in the same letter, stated, "Not all moral issues have the same moral weight as abortion and euthanasia. ...There may be a legitimate diversity of opinion even among Catholics about waging war and applying the death penalty, but not however with regard to abortion and euthanasia." An example of the "proportionate reasons" that would justify voting for a candidate who approved of some abortions would be the case when the only two candidates able to win an election were both in favor of abortion. It is morally permissible to vote for the one who supports fewer abortions than his opponent.

However, last night made it abundantly clear that Donald Trump is a pro-life candidate and Hillary Clinton is not.

And I'll leave you with Fr. Michael Orsi:

"We are in a battle for the soul of America...Somehow, [Christians] have come to buy the story that you cannot be political in church. Let me tell you right now, oh yes, you can, and oh, yes, you better be. Because you might not have a church to go to if you don't vote the right way in November."

This is the battle we are fighting. Hillary Clinton and her colleagues have made their disdain for Catholics and Christianity well known. They have even plotted to undermine the entire infrastructure of the Catholic Church comparing the destruction they plotted to the Arab Spring.

Hillary is also supporting ISIS through Saudi Arabia. And what is ISIS doing? Forcing Christians to convert and if they don't, murdering them.

Hillary is the path towards to evil. We must REJECT it!

Share if you REJECT Hillary!

H/T: Catholics 4 Trump
