Advertisement

There is a special ballot that is available for voters if they are going to be out of their registered state during the election. It's called an absentee ballot. As the name suggests, it's a way for people to vote for their home state if they won't be around during the time of the election.

As such, these ballots are sent in early. They are still counted for Election Day and the person that submitted them can still say that they have voted. These ballots are sent through the mail and to their respective sites.

At least they are supposed to be. There have been several reports of election tampering this election cycle. But nobody would be stupid enough to admit that they were doing that. Oh wait, someone was.

Advertisement

A presumably Ohio postal worker has just gone out on social media and claimed that it was a special joy to RIP the absentee ballots for Trump. On Twitter, a user by the name of raandy, or @randygbub, was BRAGGING that he enjoyed doing this.

"I love working at the post office in Columbus, Ohio and ripping up absentee ballots that vote for trump." You're joking right? TAMPERING with any sort of election ballot is a federal crime! And you just confessed to it!

Of course when somebody pointed out that it was a crime, he tried to say that it was legal! Another twitter user by the name of Jackson Berger, or @Jackson_Avenue, called him out on it! [email protected] @drewtoothpaste that's a federal crime. You're claiming its legal so you most be lying for attention, or extremely stupid."

Advertisement

It's definitely the latter. Because the very next tweet from this Ohio worker said that it was LEGAL. That raises several questions. How does someone who has worked in the postal office not realize that tampering with mail is illegal? Furthermore is this going on in several other post offices as well?

After another exchange, the Ohio postal worker tweeted "source?" as in he was asking where the law was. Mr. Berger came through once again and tweeted out the code.

Advertisement

[email protected] @drewtoothpaste 18 U.S. Code 1703 - Delay or destruction of mail or newspapers (look it up) destroying mail is a federal crime." That isn't even taking into account that it was ballots for the federal election! That is a crime as well.

Our little liberal criminal has tried to deny that it was a crime for what he did. But there are several problems. Who knows how many ballots that this person has ripped up? Were they all going to Ohio? How long as he been doing this?

These questions need to be answered! It's one thing to rip up some ballots, but it's another issue to find out where they were voting! Look at where this person claimed to work. It was in OHIO.

Ohio is one of the swing states in the election! It is literally one of the states that can decide the entire outcome of the election! And here we have this postal worker from the state, which apparently doesn't know it's illegal to tamper with mail, claiming that he loves ripping up the ballots!

Advertisement

When it comes to these swing states, literally every single vote counts. So not knowing the number of ballots that were ripped up is nerve-wracking to say the least. Not to mention that we don't know if this person is going to remain working at the post office! He obviously should be fired for participating in these actions.

This also shows the intelligence of the Democrats. They are bragging about committing a crime that could land them in jail! And they have put it on social media! Even if this person were to delete it, there is still evidence that it is out there!

Republican users were outraged to see this sort of behavior going on. And who can blame them? Someone was bragging about his criminal activity and actively trying to influence the outcome of the election!

Actor Scott Baio tweeted out this in response to the bragging. "I hope you get fired! Cheating is the only way she'll win. @realDonaldTrump Hey @JohnKasich is this okay with you?" Attached to the tweet was a link to the exchange that was going on.

Still the fact that this was going on inside a swing state is absolutely disgusting. The fact that the person was bragging about how he was ripping up ballots is even worse! But that is the intelligence level of the Democrats.

The Democrats seem to realize that they need to cheat in order to win some of these swing states. Conservative Daily Post has covered an event where a leaked Democratic National Committee email called voters that were located in Ohio and Pennsylvania "white trash." After that went public, they needed to do what they could to correct their image.

That wasn't the only thing that the Democrats were going to do to cheat. A leaked memo from the DNC also showed that they were going to do what they could in various areas in Pennsylvania to influence the election. Some of the activities that they were going to do included illegally taking signs and defacing property!

Share this article with your friends and family to show that the Democrats have reached their true desperation point. They have people inside the post office bragging about how they are ripping up ballots. Not only that but they are completely ignorant of the laws that prohibit doing that!

This is just another reason that you need to vote for Donald Trump. It's preciously the reason that every vote matters! Otherwise there will always be one liberal who thinks that they are doing a good thing by committing a federal crime.
