On Sunday, a Twitter user using the screen name "raandy" bragged on Twitter about tearing up absentee ballots of those who vote for GOP nominee Donald Trump.

"i (sic) love working at the post office in Columbus, Ohio and ripping up absentee ballots that vote for trump," the Twitter user said.

i love working at the post office in Columbus, Ohio and ripping up absentee ballots that vote for trump -- raandy (@randygdub) October 16, 2016

Naturally, that didn't sit too well with many:

@randygdub @drewtoothpaste that's a federal crime. You're claiming its legal so you most be lying for attention, or extremely stupid. -- Jackson Berger (@Jackson_Avenue) October 16, 2016

The user then claimed it's legal to destroy these ballots:

@Jackson_Avenue @drewtoothpaste no, it's legal -- raandy (@randygdub) October 16, 2016

One Twitter user posted this, indicating a tip to the FBI, but there's no real guarantee the FBI will actually do anything, just as there's no way to independently verify this claim is accurate.

@randygdub aaaahahahahahahaaaa pic.twitter.com/B4wHSfknIJ -- Eric the 13th pt. VI (@UweBollocks) October 17, 2016

One person asked:

@randygdub @FBI isn't this a federal offense? Why hasn't this criminal been charged? -- Caryn Cannatella (@Caryncann) October 17, 2016

Seriously?

Actor Scott Baio added:

I hope you get fired! Cheating is the only way she'll win. @realDonaldTrump Hey @JohnKasich is this okay with you? https://t.co/9mgk11KZHk -- Scott Baio (@ScottBaio) October 17, 2016

On Monday, Politico reported that 41 percent of voters believe the election could be stolen from Trump as a result of voter fraud and shenanigans like this:

The new POLITICO/Morning Consult poll -- conducted among 1,999 registered voters Oct. 13 through Oct. 15 -- shows that Trump's repeated warnings about a "rigged" election are having effect: 73 percent of Republicans think the election could be swiped from him. Just 17 percent of Democrats agree with the prospect of massive fraud at the ballot box.

The public sentiment is beginning to reflect Trump's campaign message. Over the last week, the GOP nominee has intensified his criticism of the U.S. electoral system, much to the chagrin of elected Republicans, who think it threatens the peaceful transfer of power. Trump calls the process rigged, and has said the media is colluding with Hillary Clinton to throw the presidential race in her favor.

Of course, the so-called "mainstream media" has bent over backward to help Clinton, as we've reported time and again. This has also been demonstrated by the emails released by Wikileaks.

"The results show that voters are increasingly losing confidence that votes around the country will be counted accurately on Election Day," Kyle Dropp, cofounder and chief research officer at Morning Consult, told Politico. "The sentiment especially rings true among Trump's supporters, with half expressing concern about a 'rigged election.'"

Related:

If you haven't checked out and liked our Facebook page, please go here and do so.
