Every presidential election has defining moments, and when Donald Trump kicked a baby out of his rally in Virginia, he may have defined this election in a clear way that will lead to Hillary Clinton being elected president.

At first, Donald Trump said all the right things about a mom who was trying to get her crying baby to settle down, but as the baby continued to cry, Trump couldn't help himself and let his real character show.

Video:

Baby cries Trump: "I hear that baby crying, I like it!" MOMENTS LATER Trump: "you can get the baby outta here"

https://t.co/hygTDAakzO -- Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) August 2, 2016

When Trump told the woman with the baby to leave his rally, it was Mitt Romney's 47% moment. It was John McCain saying the fundamentals of our economy are strong as the economy melted down around him. Trump's behavior was a confirmation of what most voters long suspected about the Republican nominee.

In less than two minutes, perception became reality.

Donald Trump confirmed that the only person on this planet that he cares about is Donald Trump. If this was an isolated gaffe, Trump might be given a break, but the coldness he showed towards to a baby is part of an ongoing long-term pattern of behavior. Trump objectifies women, treats minorities like they are criminals, mocks people with disabilities, attacks families who lost their children in combat, and now has kicked a baby out of his rally.

Hillary Clinton talks with joy about being a grandmother anytime she is asked, while Donald Trump tosses crying babies out of his rallies.

If Trump will toss a baby out of his event, it is easy to imagine what he would do as president to other vulnerable members of American society. If Trump can't treat a baby with compassion, he can't be expected to show any compassion to our veterans, elder Americans, the disabled, the poor, the uninsured, the underpaid, immigrants, or anyone in American society who is not a rich white man like Donald Trump.

Trump turned perception into reality when he kicked out the baby, and in the process may have just gotten Hillary Clinton elected president.
