Donald Trump's bad day keeps getting worse as the Republican nominee released a statement throwing a fit on Facebook after President Obama called him unfit for the White House.

The Trump campaign didn't apologize for kicking a baby out of a rally. Instead, they pulled the Republican version of, hey, look at this instead, by releasing a statement on Facebook about Clinton and Obama's "failed leadership:"

"Obama-Clinton have single-handedly destabilized the Middle East, handed Iraq, Libya and Syria to ISIS, and allowed our personnel to be slaughtered at Benghazi. Then they put Iran on the path to nuclear weapons. Then they allowed dozens of veterans to die waiting for medical care that never came.

Hillary Clinton put the whole country at risk with her illegal email server, deleted evidence of her crime, and lied repeatedly about her conduct which endangered us all. They released criminal aliens into our country who killed one innocent American after another -- like Sarah Root and Kate Steinle -- and have repeatedly admitted migrants later implicated in terrorism. They have produced the worst recovery since the Great Depression. They have shipped millions of our best jobs overseas to appease their global special interests. They have betrayed our security and our workers, and Hillary Clinton has proven herself unfit to serve in any government office.

She is reckless with her emails, reckless with regime change, and reckless with American lives. Our nation has been humiliated abroad and compromised by radical Islam brought onto our shores. We need change now."

Trump KICKED A CRYING BABY OUT OF A RALLY, and he has the nerve to claim that President Obama is a failed president, and Hillary Clinton unfit for the White House.

The Trump campaign is being overwhelmed. They can't keep up with the scandals their own candidate is generating, and the Democratic campaign for the White House.

Donald Trump is micromanager of the highest degree, so it clear that the I know you are, but what am I type of statement put out by the Trump campaign after President Obama's comments came at the direction of the candidate.

Trump had a horrible weekend after he attacked the Gold Star Khan family, but he has found a way to make the situation even worse. The Republican nominee is losing the presidential election, and he is throwing tantrums in every direction as his White House dream is being ground into dust.
