Democratic U.S. vice-presidential nominee Tim Kaine announced Saturday that he believes the Catholic Church will change its position on same-sex marriage. The Virginia senator said that just like he had changed his opinion on the issue, the Catholic Church is also likely to follow suit. Speaking at the 20th Annual Human Rights Campaign's National Dinner in Washington, the Roman Catholic senator reportedly said, "I think it's going to change because my church also teaches me about a creator who, in the first chapter of Genesis, surveyed the entire world, including mankind, and said, 'It is very good.'"

"And besides," he continued, "we are talking here about a country that was based and founded on democracy as a core value. By definition, that means that every single person and every single citizen is able - no, scratch that - encouraged to practice his civil, religious, and above all, sexual liberties to the best of their abilities. And I'm sorry that some people don't like it, but to deny same-sex marriage in a country that should be the first one to accept it is just pointless. And the Catholic Church should also be accepting it instead of condemning it, which is what it's doing right now."

Kaine also added that, if all else fails, "there are ways of making the Catholic Church listen to the voice of reason," which is how he dubbed all those who advocate LGBT equality. "At the end of the day, you know, we're a civilized people, of course the first thing we'll do is act nicely and ask nicely," he said. "Then, if that doesn't work, we'll use our law and our legal system to enable ourselves to be who we are, or rather the LBGT community will do that - and it has. The Supreme Court's ruling on same-sex marriage was a crucial milestone in our legal system that proves it works, it actually functions."

"So, what I'm saying here," he argued, "is that, while I respect the Catholic Church as I'm sure millions of Americans do, you know, at some point it is going to start acting contrary to the Christian faith, and we're talking about an institution that's supposed to be the first one on the front line defending it. So, when that happens, and that's what's happening with condemning LGBT rights, we'll state an ultimatum. The United States of America, more precisely, the future President of the United States of America, Hillary Clinton, will state an ultimatum. And that ultimatum will be to either change its stance on same-sex marriage or pack its bags and get out of America. And yes - the President of the country can do that."

"And in case anybody's wondering - no, Donald Trump won't do the same because he doesn't care about anyone other than Donald Trump. On the other hand, Hillary Clinton is a shining example of honesty, integrity and democracy, and you can rest assured she will do everything in her power as the president to make sure gays and lesbians throughout America are loved, respected and viewed as equals during her presidential term. What happens after that is not our problem," Kaine concluded.
