Share With Your Friends On Facebook, Twitter, Everywhere











It appears that the outbreaks of random, uncharacteristic honesty continue as the reality of Donald Trump finally dawns on America. |The fact that he's a patriot and his opponent is a crook exploiting our country into ruin seems to finally be registering with the American people.

First we had the still hard to explain and suspect pseudo endorsement of Trump by Michael Moore, which many of us still see as having some ulterior motive we just haven't yet figured out. Now comes the equally perplexing statement by Chris Matthews which appears to have come during his Hardball program.

There's a breaking news bulletin during the end of his speech that indicates it occurred just a few days ago during the same time as the news of Mike Pence's plane skidding off the runway was being announced. That helps to add credibility to the clip, although the rationale behind it, the sudden random act of honesty and clarity is still up in the air.

Matthews asks his viewers, "Do you like the way things are, the way they've been headed in this country? Do you like the continued destruction of our manufacturing base, to the jobs that went with it? Do you like the uncontrolled illegal immigration? Do you like the string of stupid wars from Iraq to Libya to Syria?"

He continues, "If you want to say yes to all of that, you want to keep all of this the way it is, vote for Hillary Clinton. If you don't like the way things have been headed, you've got a chance to really shake this system to its roots."

"If you wake up the day after the elections, "Matthews says, "and it's the same as it is today, and it's the same for four, five or eight years from now, remember you had the chance to change it, but you were too dainty to do it.

Maybe it's a Trump commercial that Matthews is doing. If it isn't already, it certainly should be.

Please like Rick on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/RickRWells/ and at Stop The Takeover, https://www.facebook.com/StopTheTakeover/ and please follow on Twitter @RickRWells I'd also appreciate it if you SUBSCRIBE in the right sidebar on my website at http://RickWells.us.

Share With Your Friends On Facebook, Twitter, Everywhere










