This is the SLEAZY low that the Democrats have stooped to! This proves Clinton camp was conspiring to spread this narrative before allegations. It's a setup!!!

Don't let MSM ignore the DNC contrived the fake groping stories.

According to new WikiLeaks email, this was planned by the Democrats back in May.

Democrats prepared fake Trump "grope under the meeting table" Craigslist employment advertisement in May 2016:

Below is the text from the actual emails. The team literally collaborated to create a FAKE AD to try to paint Trump in a negative light.

Email 1 was to get approval from the higher ups...

"Mark and Luis - digital created a fake craigslist jobs post for women who want to apply to jobs one of Trump's organizations. This will be a microsite and we still need to send it to Perkins. Since we will be pitching this, need your approval please."

Then the 2nd email was the "Ad"...

"Multiple Positions (NYC area) Seeking staff members for multiple positions in a large, New York-based corporation known for its real estate investments, fake universities, steaks, and wine. The boss has very strict standards for female employees, ranging from the women who take lunch orders (must be hot) to the women who oversee multi-million dollar construction projects (must maintain hotness demonstrated at time of hiring).

Title: Honey Bunch (that's what the boss will call you) Job requirements: * No gaining weight on the job (we'll take some "before" pictures when you start to use later as evidence) * Must be open to public humiliation and open-press workouts if you do gain weight on the job * A willingness to evaluate other women's hotness for the boss' satisfaction is a plus * Should be proficient in lying about age if the boss thinks you're too old Working mothers not preferred (the boss finds pumping breast milk disgusting, and worries they're too focused on their children). About us: We're proud to maintain a "fun" and "friendly work environment, where the boss is always available to meet with his employees. Like it or not, he may greet you with a kiss on the lips or grope you under the meeting table."

This is absolutely DISGUSTING! The Democrats have stooped to a new low!

Breaking News>>> BREAKING: Email Hacker Revealing Details of the Take Down of Hillary
