A windy statement uttered last night by Chris Matthews, an MSNBC host, sure sounded a whole lot like a Donald Trump endorsement.

"If you like the way things are, the way they've been headed in this country. If you'd like to continue the destruction of our manufacturing base and the jobs that went with it. If you like the uncontrolled illegal immigration, if you like the string of stupid wars from Iraq to Libya to Syria. If you want to say yes to all of that, you want to keep all this the way it is, then vote for Hillary Clinton," Matthews said on live television.

Could the host have been mocking the feelings and thoughts of the millions of Americans who support Donald Trump? He sure could have, it is MSNBC after all, but Matthews continued in this unusual display of unbiased commentary on Trump.

"If you don't like the way things are headed, you got a chance to really shake the system to its roots. And if you wake up the day after the election and it's the same as it is today, if it's the same four or five or eight years from now, remember you had the chance to change it, but you were too dainty to do it," Chris Matthews continued.

Don't get too excited thinking that common sense finally filtered through liberal brains and converted them into patriots. As with all things in life, context matters.

The now viral video clip of Chris Matthews seeming to endorse Donald Trump actually should include quite a few more moments of airtime, which were edited out. The MSNBC host was merely posing a hypothetical scenario of how the supporters of Donald Trump should be arguing in support of their candidate and how the candidate himself should argue.

Matthews, ever the arrogant liberal elitist, feels he knows how to address the ills and woes of the nation better than the leading presidential candidate and his supporters. The beginning of his viral dialogue began like this:

"Whatever you think of Donald Trump, you have to wonder, why isn't he doing it? Why isn't he running for president? Why isn't he spending every hour asking the voters again and again..."

Chris Matthews went on to say that if Donald Trump wins on November 8th, all of the things he just listed would be at the top of every news article covering the election outcome. Ah, more liberal humility.

"So why doesn't he say now what would win him the election? Why does he fight and create stupid headlines about his battles with Megyn Kelly and Dana Bash?" Matthews asked.

Well, Chris, sometimes, when you have time or--please pardon the crude expression here, folks--balls, you'll decide that standing up for yourself against a biased mainstream media sounds like a pretty good idea.

No worries though, Mr. Matthews--Hillary's FBI investigation, her Clinton Foundation scandals, new Project Veritas undercover videos, WikiLeaks, Donna Brazile, and much more are giving Trump and millions of American voters plenty of exciting new things to talk about!

Click here to get my DAILY Trump email newsletter free!!

Please share this story on Facebook and tell us what you think because we want to hear YOUR voice! You can also reach out to me on Twitter at @AP_SgtFreefall to discuss this story.
