The Department of Homeland Security just went on the air with Fox News and told the American People that Hillary Clinton is guilty of treason.

In the damning announcement, Department of Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul revealed that Hillary Clinton clearly acted against the multiple security warnings she received while Secretary of State.

Furthermore, he went on to release that Hillary Clinton took multiple devices overseas. Not only that, these devices were proven to be hacked by China, Russia, and the Islamic State of Iran.

The intent is clear. Hillary Clinton used the secret server to hide her actions from the American People. She committed pure treason against the United States. Here is the full video:

Obama was also involved in the highly illegal email activity. He even used an alias to help protect his identity. FBI security experts easily cracked the alias, revealing hundreds of secret conversations between Obama and Hillary about foreign and domestic policy!

And now that the FBI has found massive evidence that Hillary used the Clinton Foundation to make millions, it means the email server was undoubtedly used to rob the American People.

What's worse, Daily Mail reported on the WikiLeak that Hillary and Obama's Chief of Staff John Podesta were warned ahead of time of the impending investigations. Because of this, they were able to delete and acid-wash all of the 33,000 emails just 5 days before her trial!

The actions of Clinton go far beyond political corruption. They show a clear and decisive intent to destroy American Justice and Democracy. And it's not just Hillary Clinton. Our very own Commander in Chief was involved the entire time.

Oh, and the Department of Justice is being led by Loretta Lynch, who secretly met with Bill Clinton on a landing Strip in Phoenix mere days before Hillary was acquitted! As of today, Lynch is being sued to disclose the details of the meeting.

When the American Constitution was crafted, a very meaningful and necessary clause was added:

"that, whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute a new government"

We are now on the forefront of what our grandchildren will come to know as the Second American Revolution. The government is no longer of the people; instead, corrupt officials use citizens as pawns in a twisted game of death and destruction.

Truly, the fate of our nation will be decided in just five short days.
