Share With Your Friends On Facebook, Twitter, Everywhere











House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul is asked about information obtained by Fox News' Bret Baier from sources inside the FBI which have determined that there is a 99% certainty that Hillary Clinton's unsecured email storage and communications of classified sensitive US Government information were hacked by at least five foreign governments.

He's asked first if that reality doesn't open her up to blackmail by those nations. McCaul replies, "Absolutely it does. The concern I've had all along is she has had seven special access programs on these devices. Those are the most classified sensitive secrets in the federal government, many of them covert operations."

McCaul says, "She took those devices overseas against the State Department's wishes, and now we find out, as James Comey told me previously, that it's very likely that foreign adversary nations got into her 'private' server. This is why you have security protocols, to protect classified information."

"She exposed it to our enemies," says McCaul, "and now our enemies have this very sensitive information that not only jeopardizes her and national security at home, but the men and women serving overseas. This is, in my opinion, quite frankly, it's treason."

Brian Kilmeade asks about the fact that pretend 'president' Hussein Obama was communicating with Clinton over that server at those time as well, using an alias. He asks, "What are the implications of the 'president' communicating with the Secretary of State on an unsecured server, now that we know it was hacked five times?" Kilmeade said it was hacked five times, it could well have been many more incidences than that. There were five governments involved. It's unlikely they restricted themselves to one visit each.

McCaul says, "Now the American people know why this was such a big deal. It should be in a protected environment - it wasn't. It was created to get around the Freedom of Information Act because she didn't want to be transparent to the American people. Now it's vulnerable to a cyber attack, looks like it was, and now countries like Russia and China and Iran have the most highly sensitive programs in the United States."

He adds, "And the 'president' of the United States is communicating with her under a pseudonym. They're not stupid, they can figure that out as well. This is a huge story. It's far bigger than the accusations against Donald Trump. This goes to the heart of fitness of character to serve as Commander-in-Chief."

McCaul is asked about the advocacy role Hussein Obama is now playing on behalf of Clinton and the cheerleading by Valerie Jarrett for Comey to be fired. McCaul laughs off the Jarrett aspect of the question, saying, "I don't think Valerie Jarrett has any credibility here," saying that he's known Comey for 20 years and that "he will always do the right thing in his mind." He says that Comey was a hero for coming in and refuting the false claims by Clinton that she has been cleared and the investigation was over.

Please like Rick on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/RickRWells/ and at Stop The Takeover, https://www.facebook.com/StopTheTakeover/ and please follow on Twitter @RickRWells I'd also appreciate it if you SUBSCRIBE in the right sidebar on my website at http://RickWells.us.

Share With Your Friends On Facebook, Twitter, Everywhere










