The FBI has the legal authority to force Yahoo to disclose whether IPs belonging to third parties, including foreign third parties, had access to read in real time and in non-redacted form emails that Abedin forwarded to [email protected] These are the same emails which ended up on Wiener's laptop, and are now in question. Huma Abedin forwarded classified national security information to one of two personal, unsecured email accounts she regularly used to transact State Department business, the latest cache of emails released by Judicial Watch indicates that. Many of the emails Huma sent to herself have a bold "PAGE DENIED" stamped on the page.

On July 25, 2012, WND reported that Huma Abedin has family ties to the Muslim Brotherhood, including having worked on the editorial board of a Saudi-financed Islamic think tank alongside Abdull Omar Naseef, a Muslim extremist with close ties to the Abedin family who has been accused of financing AL-Qaeda fronts.

In that article, it was also reported then Rep. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota sent letters to the inspectors general at the departments of Homeland Security, State, and Justice asking that they investigate Muslim Brotherhood influence on U.S. government officials, noting with particular concern that Abedin has three family members - her late father, her mother, and her brother - connected to Muslim Brotherhood operatives and/or organizations.

A reasonable person might ask why was Huma Abedin sending herself classified and top secret information to an unsecured yahoo account? An account which could be easily hacked. Yahoo has already admitted it was hacked and that thousands of users information was stolen, but even if Abedin wasn't one of the usrs whos information was stolen, by taking it offline, Abedin could have given the user name and password to a third party, including a foreign third party, without State Department IT administrators, or the IT administrators of the Clinton's private server, realizing it.

To determine if others were accessing her [email protected] because Abedin had given them username and password access, or because the outside users had obtained username and password access via other means, including hacking, the fact and frequency of outside IP access to [email protected] could only be determined with certainty if Yahoo is forced to turn over that information. Something which I am sure can not happen before Tuesdays presidential election.

Huma's complex use of [email protected]

Careful analysis of the Huma Abedin emails, released to Judicial Watch on August 17, we became aware that in August and September in addition to Huma Abedin forwarding an estimated two-thirds of all State Department emails written by her and/or addressed to her to [email protected] , Secretary Clinton and others in the State Department freely used [email protected] to transmit and receive State Department emails.

The most typical example of Abedin forwarding a State Department email to herself can be seen in an email obtained by Judicial Watch dated May 19, 2009, in which Abedin, using her State Department secure email account at "Abedin, Huma, <[email protected] >" forwarded to "humamabedin[redacted] an email sent to her by Kenneth H. Merten, Deputy Assistant Secretary at the State Department:

In the Huma Abedin emails released by Judicial Watch on Aug. 31, WND found two instances where [email protected] were left in a non-redacted form, with all other appearances of "humamabedin" having the account address redacted, leading to the conclusion that "humamabedin" - her name including her middle initial - was the self-reference Abedin used only in conjunction with her Yahoo.com account.

A second variation involved Abedin using her email address on Secretary Clinton's private server, "Huma Abedin [[email protected] ]," to forward an email to Abedin via her private Yahoo account at [email protected] , as seen in another email dated June 23, 2009.



This second variation, sent on the same day as the first example above, leaves no doubt Clinton felt no hesitation not only to communicate State Department business with Abedin through emails Clinton sent Abedin to her insecure Yahoo.com email address totally outside the control of either Abedin's State Department email address or Abedin's email address on Clinton's private server.

A third variation involved Secretary Clinton using her private email address, [email protected] >," to send an email directly to Abedin's Yahoo account, here listed as "humamabedin[redacted]," with Clinton forwarding to Abedin a Council of Foreign Relations speech that Blumenthal had sent to Cheryl Mills, Secretary Clinton's State Department chief of staff, that Blumenthal had dated July 9, 2009, and marked "CONFIDENTIAL."

Note, that while Blumenthal had addressed the original email in this chain to Cheryl Mills, both at her State Department address, [email protected] >" and to her private email at "cheryl mills[redacted]," WND could find no instance in the emails Judicial Watch has made public so far in which Mills forwarded any State Department emails to herself at her private off-line email account.

Finally, on Aug. 8, 2009, Abedin using her Clinton private server email address forwarded to her Yahoo account, with the Yahoo address not redacted and reading fully [email protected] ," an email Hillary had forwarded to Abedin on Aug. 6, 2009, an email from Blumenthal in which Blumenthal was conveying sensitive information about an upcoming Moscow summit.



On Sept. 8, in reporting on this email change, WND called it a "smoking gun" that should put both Abedin and Clinton in prison because Blumenthal had marked the material "CONFIDENTIAL," but the State Department, in preparing to release this email to Judicial Watch, marked it as "CLASSIFIED."

That Clinton and Abedin sent State Department emails to Abedin insecure, offline Yahoo.com email account appears to be a clear violation of national-security laws regarding the handling of classified information.

The violation is compounded if the emails were downloaded to a laptop or other electronic device owned by or shared by Weiner because access to Weiner's email usernames and passwords, either by consent or as a result of hacking, would have allowed access to State Department emails Clinton and Abedin sent to [email protected]

When the FBI obtains information from Yahoo.com that unauthorized IP addresses, possibly some of which might be foreign IP addresses, then the national security crimes under investigation might reach to espionage and/or treason charges, depending in large part on whether or not Abedin and/or others released username and password access consensual, in order to allow unauthorized IP reader access to State Department emails in real-time and a non-redacted format.

Via: silence is consent

Comments

comments
