Donald Trump absent his teleprompter could be in deep trouble during the upcoming presidential debates.

On September 26th, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump will face off on a national stage for the first time since the brutal 2016 presidential campaign began. Depending on which Donald Trump shows up and how Hillary Clinton interacts, the debate is likely to have a huge impact on the outcome of the election. But Donald Trump has a bigger problem; the loss of his teleprompter.







Prior to the August reboot of the Trump campaign, which limited the candidate to reading prepared remarks from a teleprompter, the GOP nominee was in free-fall and threatening to drag Republican down-ballot candidates with him. The read-only change has helped The Donald by restricting his opportunities to offend women, Muslims, immigrants, Hispanics, veterans and Gold Star Families, and other Republicans. But it's more of a band-aid than a cure for Trump's mouth.

Donald Trump won't have a teleprompter during his debate with Hillary Clinton, and it may prove that he's incapable of self-control without having his mouth tied to prewritten words.

Trump Also Has A Paranoia Problem

NBC's Lester Holt will be the sole moderator for the 90 minute, Hofstra University debate in Hempstead, NY. Yet Trump is already in protest mode, claiming he doesn't want any moderators at all. The GOP nominee expressed feelings of paranoia by suggesting that moderators were out to get him.

Trump told CNBC on Friday, "The fact is that they're gaming the system, and I think, maybe, we should have no moderator. Let Hillary and I sit there and just debate because I think the system is being rigged so it's gonna be a very unfair debate, and I can see it happening right now because everyone's saying that he was soft on Trump."







Clinton has voiced no public complaints about debate formats, probably because they are the least of her problems. Like Trump, Clinton shares the problem of high unfavorable ratings, currently about 60 percent for both candidates.

Either way, the one-on-one debate between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump is going to be watched around the world, maybe for it's political value -- and maybe for pure entertainment.

You can see the full debate schedule here.

*** Maryann Tobin is the author of "Afterlife: The Journey Of A Dog's Spirit"

This heartwarming story is told through the eyes of an animal spirit that has been sent back to earth in the body of a small dog. His mission is to help a young woman discover that their destinies are more connected to the powers of the Spirit World than either of them ever imagined. If you've ever shared your life with a dog or any other pet, you will never look at them the same way again after reading this book. Afterlife: The Journey of a Dog's Spirit is available now on Amazon.com.
