It seems that Democrat Hillary Clinton, perhaps the most evil person ever nominated to the White House by a major party, doesn't like average Americans at all. In addition to bashing nearly a quarter of the country as un-American and "irredeemable," she referred to liberal supporters as being in a "bucket of losers."

"What we see on the left is way more disconcerting," she reportedly told Goldman Sachs bankers in 2014.

"The early data suggests that while the minority base is probably still dominated by the Democratic messaging, a coalition of sub altern interests is forming that could, with an extremely weak Republican nominee, create and aperture for either a 3rd party victory or, in essence an election inflection point where an insurgent candidate could actually co-opt -- take over -- a major party," she added.

"This coalition, a collection of generally under-represented, low social capital individuals has become increasingly networked and increasingly motivated.

"This group that our analysts are calling the ((Makes air quotes)) bucket of losers could not only be a significant force in the next election but could, on an outside percentile, even win."

Goldman Sachs Transcripts: Hillary Calls Left "Bucket of Losers" - https://t.co/y7UbHhlA4W - Thank you Wikileaks! pic.twitter.com/UkjkxQQrd3 -- The Impious Digest (@impiousdigest) October 7, 2016

No joke! Crooked Hillary Clinton called Bernie Sanders supporters "A bucket of Loosers!" #PodestaEmails #Trumptapes pic.twitter.com/xPgGNFpBiQ -- DEPLORABLE TRUMPCAT (@Darren32895836) October 8, 2016

The American Mirror added:

Is it possible this was what became the Bernie Sanders coalition? Or the current Donald Trump coalition?

Either way, it's a sizable number of Americans that she is dropping into the "bucket of losers."

At a fundraiser with New York City elites last month, Hillary lashed out at one-quarter of Americans, tossing them into a "basket of deplorables" supporting Donald Trump.

Meanwhile, the mainstream media -- known here as the Democrat-media complex -- is busy distracting voters with lewd comments Trump made 11 years ago and is barely covering any of the leaked documents.

Related:

If you haven't checked out and liked our Facebook page, please go here and do so.
