Before Hillary Clinton derided one-quarter of Americans as a "basket of deplorables," she smeared other Americans as a "bucket of losers."

No wonder she didn't want her Wall Street speeches released.

Transcripts of Clinton's speeches to Wall Street bankers were dumped by Wikileaks on Friday and in at least one, she showed more contempt for average Americans.

Analyzing the political climate in the run up to the 2016 presidential campaign, Clinton theorized there was room for a potential third-party candidate of the Republicans nominated a weak one.

"What we see on the left is way more disconcerting," Clinton supposedly told Goldman Sachs bankers in 2014.

"The early data suggests that while the minority base is probably still dominated by the Democratic messaging, a coalition of sub altern interests is forming that could, with an extremely weak Republican nominee, create and aperture for either a 3rd party victory or, in essence an election inflection point where an insurgent candidate could actually co-opt -- take over -- a major party," Clinton said.

"This coalition, a collection of generally under-represented, low social capital individuals has become increasingly networked and increasingly motivated.

"This group that our analysts are calling the ((Makes air quotes)) bucket of losers could not only be a significant force in the next election but could, on an outside percentile, even win."

Is it possible this was what became the Bernie Sanders coalition? Or the current Donald Trump coalition?

Either way, it's a sizable number of Americans that she is dropping into the "bucket of losers."

At a fundraiser with New York City elites last month, Hillary lashed out at one-quarter of Americans, tossing them into a "basket of deplorables" supporting Donald Trump.

"To just be grossly generalistic, you can put half of Trump supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables," Clinton said, according to CNN. "Right? Racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic, you name it."

She added that group is "irredeemable" and "not America."

Why does Hillary Clinton feel the need to smear average Americans in front of her well-heeled friends?
