The leftist media, the Clintons and the Obama regime are all conspiring to keep citizens in the dark

(NaturalNews) If you're not following the shocking Wikileaks email dumps on John Podesta and the Clintons, you're rapidly falling behind in U.S. history. Day after day, the email dumps have revealed astonishing, damning details about the dark tactics used by the Clintons to dumb down and control the masses.One of the most damning I've seen so far was sent to Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman John Podesta by former Clinton administration official Bill Ivey on March 13, 2016. You can read it at Wikileaks in its entirety.The email laments the fact thatand that democrats are beginning to panic over their inability to keep everyone in the dark. Here's what's said in the email:The email was written by Bill Ivey, a trustee of the Center for American Progress (which is nothing more than a Clinton campaign front). He was also "Team Leader" for the Obama presidential transition process in 2009.Here's a screen capture of the email:Long derided as a kooky "conspiracy theory," the idea that the Clintons and media are desperately working tois now spelled out in black and white.It's not only a TRUE conspiracy ; it's also the policy of the political elite (on both sides of the aisle). Both of the Bushes ran their regimes on the exact same policy, which explains why the Bushes are now trying to destroy Donald Trump (because he's an outsider who wants to wake people up rather than keeping them dumbed down).In fact,. If they lose control over your mind, they will lose their power dominance. This is whyto push false stories and false narratives that weave a contrived, engineered reality in the minds of the masses.REMEMBER: Their ultimate goal is to make sure you remain part of the "unaware and compliant citizenry." That's the only way they can maintain power.I recently released a mini-documentary explaining all this, by the way. It's called The WAR on Reality . Watch it here, as it explains exactly what you're now witnessing with the Clinton campaign:
