A newly released email between Clinton insiders John Podesta and Bill Ivey expose how they and others "conspired" to keep the US public both ignorant and docile.

Earlier today, Wikileaks released its second batch of the 'Podesta Emails.' The release was announced the morning following the second Presidential debate, which many said had Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton on the defensive. The previous release of the emails from Clinton's campaign chair, John Podesta, have exposed the corruption of the Clinton campaign, the mainstream press, as well as Hillary herself. However, an email found amongst the most recent release may implicate Clinton in an even greater "conspiracy." In an exchange between Podesta and Bill Ivey, chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts under Bill Clinton, Ivey expresses his concern of Clinton facing Trump as Clinton "is not an entertainer," unlike Trump who hosted TV reality shows and international beauty pageants prior to running for president. In the email, Ivery says he is unsure what Clinton can do to "offset" this perceived weakness but says she can count on at least one thing: the ignorance of the general public.

Ivey told Podesta,

"as I've mentioned, we've all been quite content to demean government, drop civics and in general conspire to produce an unaware and compliant citizenry."

It is difficult to know how "we all" refers to, but it could very well be much larger than just the Clinton campaign. Attempting to manipulate the entire citizenry and maintain it "unaware" would necessitate high-level involvement from not just the US political system, but also from the media and the private sector. This startling admission shows that the US political elite has worked to manufacture an ignorant populace with the purpose of advancing their agendas, which an informed populace would likely not consent to. More specifically, this email implies that any information coming out of Clinton's campaign, especially as it pertains to key issues in the election, is most likely complete misinformation intended to maintain safe levels of "unawareness" among the US general public.

This is seconded by recently leaked emails which showed Clinton discussing the need for both "public" and "private" positions on major issues when running for public office. Clinton also stated in her paid speech excerpts that public perception of the "system being rigged" had to be managed to ensure economic and political stability as well as public cooperation. These excerpts confirm that Clinton herself wishes to maintain the public ignorant of her real plans as any admission of her honest platform would easily render her unelectable. Just like Obama who promised "change," Clinton, regardless of her "public" stance, will follow continue the orders of her oligarch donors.

Ivey also stated in the email that "The unawareness remains strong but compliance is obviously fading rapidly. This problem demands some serious, serious thinking - and not just poll-driven, demographically-inspired messaging." Ivey bemoans the decline in complacency with the system as everyday Americans are beginning to release that the current system does not benefit them in the slightest and is made to benefit the richest Americans, often referred to as the "1%." Though many more Americans are aware of systemic injustices like never before, such as an increased awareness of institutional racism, Ivey notes that the general public's knowledge of how the system really works is still based on ignorance, thanks to the maneuverings of himself and others.

Many US citizens still hold onto the idea that the US is the "world's greatest democracy" and fail to accept the widespread corruption of past US political leaders as evidence of a rigged system. Though there is no shortage of evidence showing that powerful corporations and bankers are the ones really pulling the strings, many continue to believe in the integrity of US politicians and institutions despite nearly constant scandals pointing to the contrary. Will this revelation and others convince Americans that the whole system must change or will they continue to see that "unawareness remains strong" in the United States?

What are your thoughts? Please comment below and share this news!

This article (Wikileaks Emails Prove Clinton Insiders "Conspired to Produce an Unaware and Compliant Citizenry") is free and open source. You have permission to republish this article under a Creative Commons license with attribution to the author and TrueActivist.com
