Dean James III% AMERICA'S FREEDOM FIGHTERS -

WikiLeaks latest email dump reveals what Hillary and her minions have in store for Americans and let's just say that it's a bombshell!

Clinton's plan for the future revolves around maintaining political power while working to create an "unaware" and "compliant" citizenry, Kim Smith at Conservative Tribune reports.

The email came from Bill Ivey, who was appointed Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts during President Bill Clinton's second term. It was sent to Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman John Podesta on March 13, 2016.

In the email, Ivey considered how Clinton could fight against Trump's appeal and suggested that simply falling back on previous policies wouldn't work.

Here's is the email:

"Well, we all thought the big problem for our US democracy was Citizens United/Koch Brothers big money in politics. Silly us; turns out that money isn't all that important if you can conflate entertainment with the electoral process.

Trump masters TV, TV so-called news picks up and repeats and repeats to death this opinionated blowhard and his hairbrained ideas, free-floating discontent attaches to a seeming strongman and we're off and running. JFK, Jr would be delighted by all this as his "George" magazine saw celebrity politics coming.

The magazine struggled as it was ahead of its time but now looks prescient. George, of course, played the development pretty lightly, basically for charm and gossip, like People, but what we are dealing with now is dead serious. How does this get handled in the general?

Secretary Clinton is not an entertainer, and not a celebrity in the Trump, Kardashian mold; what can she do to offset this? I'm certain the poll-directed insiders are sure things will default to policy as soon as the conventions are over, but I think not.

And as I've mentioned, we've all been quite content to demean government, drop civics and in general conspire to produce an unaware and compliant citizenry. The unawareness remains strong but compliance is obviously fading rapidly. This problem demands some serious, serious thinking - and not just poll driven, demographically-inspired messaging."

This email confirmed what Democrats like Clinton have in mind for the American public. Clinton loves to claim that her vision of America includes one where everyone is treated the same way, but she is only saying what she thinks the public wants to hear.

This proves what Clinton actually thinks of American citizens.

Clinton's plan isn't to make America great again.

She wants to produce an unaware and compliant citizenry.

Simply unbelievable.

VOTE FOR DONALD J. TRUMP! TOGETHER WE WILL MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!

Dean James III% AMERICA'S FREEDOM FIGHTERS

Please like and share on Facebook and Twitter
