A shocking report revealed that Russian intelligence has asked the CIA why Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton just bought $137 million worth of illegal arms. The Kremlin is now requesting an immediate explanation for the purchase of arms and ammunition, with delivery marked "mid-November 2016".

A report from the Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) suggests that the Russian Security Council has authorized the sending of an emergency communique to the CIA.

The message is allegedly asking an explanation for the purchase of millions of dollars worth of arms by the Clinton Foundation to be delivered to the United States.

Also Read: WW3 Before Or After US Elections? Hillary Clinton Foreign Policy To Start War Immediately

According to What Does It Mean, SVR analysts began expressing "urgent concern" earlier this year. This is after the main elements of of the feared Viktor Bout's international arms smuggling crime organization began arriving in the Republic of Albania, the only Muslim country in Europe.

Bout, who has been known by the moniker "Lord of War" in the West, is infamous for his workings with the CIA to smuggle arms throughout the world. That is until, 2011 when Clinton's State Department had him jailed.

His dealings could have also included the controversial arms transferred arms transfer in Libya facilitated by Obama and Hillary Clinton.

According to the Daily Mail, the transfer occurred despite a UN ban and resulted in the "accidental" arming ISIS, Al Qaeda, and the perpetrators of the Benghazi attack.

Also Read: Donald Trump Hollywood Walk Of Fame - Hillary Clinton Paid Jamie Otis To Wreck It?

Despite being a citizen of the Russian Federation, the Kremlin had no qualms about Bout being jailed. However they did express concern when US Federal Judge Shira Scheindlin said he should have had a reduced sentence, RT reported.

The reduction of Bout's sentence also led, on October 26, to him being transferred from a maximum security facility to the "country club" atmosphere of the US Federal Prison System.

Coinciding with the mysterious prison transfer, the report also noted the transfer of $137.7 million from the Clinton Foundation to the Socialist Party of Albania (SPA).

What could be the purpose of this massive arms purchase by Hillary Clinton and the Clinton Foundation? Does the delivery coinciding with the election month in the United States also hold some sort of significance? Let us know what you think in the comments below.

Also Read: Hillary Clinton Sells Uranium To Russia - Facts Behind Vladimir Putin's Scandal

Liked this story? Subscribe to our newsletter or follow us on Twitter and Facebook for more updates on America.
