What kind of charity is involved in illegal arms purchases? The CLINTON Foundation.

And Russia wants to know why.

A report from the Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) has been apparently circulating in the Kremlin recently. The report reveals that the Security Council (SC) has authorized an emergency communication to American Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) requesting an immediate explanation as to why the Clinton Foundation, this past week, purchased over $137 million of illegal arms and ammunition. The destination is the United States with delivery being marked as "mid-November 2016".

Could this be another money - laundering scheme of utmost proportion by The Clinton Foundation, which has been proven to be not much more than a cover for the Clinton's Pay-to-Play scams and other nefarious activities? All found when a few choice layers are peeled back, thanks to Julian Assange. Why would the Clintons use their Foundation to transfer $137.7 million to the Socialist Party of Albania(SPA)? The SPA is controlled by Prime Minister Edi Rama, who is the head of the Xhakja Clan (known in the West as the Albanian Mafia) Surprisingly, this particular Prime Minister was put into power by the Obama-Clinton regime over the protests of the Albanian people who did not want a "mafia government" controlling them.

To fully understand why Hillary Clinton made this massive arms purchase, one item we have to look at is her adherence to George Soros's radical vision of open borders. --and that he single-handedly began implementing by creating the European refugee crisis that will, likewise, engulf the United States should Hillary Clinton become president, exactly as her leaked emails reveal.

Once these weapons are in the hands of Hillary Clinton's "new revolutionaries", this report continues, they will then be used to unleash a "terror wave" across America protesting Donald Trump's landslide victory. The DNC and Clinton Campaign march lock step with Black Lives Matter, the Unions, MoveOn, The Occupy Movement, La Raza, and other groups under the Soros umbrella of global domination. This will enable Obama to declare martial law to disarm these people, and at the same time disarm the patriots with legal weapons used to defend themselves and their families. Once martial law is declared, Obama will sign one of his famous illegal "executive orders" and allow the US Electors to place Hillary Clinton in power. [Note: American presidents are NOT elected by the popular vote of citizens, but by the vote of the Electors (Ecectoral College) selected from each of USA's fifty States.]

H/T The Black Sphere

by Dawn Gaye ||Image Credit
