On Friday, Truth Revolt reported that Pentagon sources are calling for the detainment of Democrat Hillary Clinton for revealing America's nuclear response times during the third presidential debate, citing a report at True Pundit.

"But here's the deal. The bottom line on nuclear weapons is that when the president gives the order, it must be followed. There's about four minutes between the order being given and the people responsible for launching nuclear weapons to do so," Clinton said.

According to True Pundit (Emphasis added):

"Secretary Clinton proved tonight she is unfit to be commander-in-chief," a top-ranking DOD intelligence source said. "What she did compromises our national security. She is cavalier and reckless and in my opinion should be detained and questioned so we can unravel why she did what she did."

According to Pentagon sources, the information Clinton disseminated publicly is Top Secret intelligence governed under the U.S. Special Access Program (SAP) which dictates safeguards and protocols for accessing and discussing highly classified and Top Secret intelligence. The specific details of the country's nuclear response time discussed by Clinton, sources said, are only known by a handful of individuals outside top military brass, including the following "need-to-know" (NTK) officials:

President

Vice President

Secretary of State

Secretary of Defense

Secretary of Homeland Security

Attorney General

Director of National Intelligence

CIA Director

Deputy Secretary of State

Deputy Secretary of Defense

Special personnel designated solely by the President in writing

Sources said late Wednesday Clinton likely violated two different types of Dept. of Defense SAP protocols. Since nuclear response is part of the sensitive national plan for nuclear war operations, all of its schematics are covered under both "Intelligence SAPs" and "Operation and Support SAPs," sources said. Both contain Top Secret information.

"Targeting options by ICBM (intercontinental ballistic missiles), air or sea, launch order, launch procedures and response are some of the most secretly guarded tenets of national security and nuclear war policy," a Pentagon source reportedly said. "It's truly incredible that (nuclear) response time as part of an ERO (Emergency Response Option) is now out there in the public domain to our adversaries."

Truth Revolt added:

Hillary has come under fire repeatedly for her ineptness and incompetence at handling national security secrets. And yet she just unleashed a series of campaign ads painting Trump as a loose cannon who can't be trusted with nuclear secrets and weapons at his fingertips.

Moreover, liberals like Joy Behar are calling Trump a traitor, but remain silent on this. Wonder why...

Related:

If you haven't checked out and liked our Facebook page, please go here and do so.
