The Wildfire is an opinion platform and any opinions or information put forth by contributors are exclusive to them and do not represent the views of IJR.

It was a WTF (What the Frick) moment during the 3rd Presidential debate: That time Hillary Clinton talked about the amount of time it takes the U.S. to launch a nuclear strike against its enemies:

No one caught that Crooked Hillary stated on LIVE TV what our NUKE RESPONSE TIME IS 4 MIN??@FoxNews @DRUDGE #debatenight #ChrisWallace pic.twitter.com/QBbbmGkmeL -- John T. Miller (@cyvault) October 20, 2016

Why is Hillary talking about the time it takes the U.S. to launch a nuclear strike against its enemies?

Sure, we get that you don't like The Donald, and Democrats and some moderates are petrified that Trump will get his hands on the nuclear football, but you're talking about the time it takes the US to launch a nuclear strike against its enemies.

The "four-minute warning" has a history going back to the Cold War and describes the approximate time it took for the Soviet Union (they were communists, and were bad) to launch nuclear weapons at Great Britain. That time is around what it would take Putin to launch nukes: two to four minutes. But the U.S. launch response time?

As Politico reported on a nuclear launch scenario:

Let us say the president is awakened in the middle of the night (the proverbial 3 a.m. phone call) by his or her top nuclear adviser and told of an incoming nuclear strike. Since the flight time of missiles fired from launch stations in Russia or China to the White House is 30 minutes, and 12 minutes or less for missiles fired from submarines lurking in the Western Atlantic Ocean (Russian subs historically favor a patrol area to the west of Bermuda), the steadiness and brainpower of the commander in chief in such circumstances are serious questions indeed.

As The Daily Wire points out, many believe she gave up the U.S.' national security secrets:

Hillary dropped, on live #debatenight, Response time between presidential order and nuclear missile launch. Info isis classified TS/NC2. -- Tharru (@VoxRomani) October 20, 2016

Hillary dropped, on live #debatenight, Response time between presidential order and nuclear missile launch. Info isis classified TS/NC2. -- Tharru (@VoxRomani) October 20, 2016

Hillary disclosed classified information tonight. HIGHLY classified information. Our nuclear response time is top secret. -- Deplorable American (@KFieLd_4TRUMP) October 20, 2016

Did Hillary just leak TS information on national TV regarding nuclear response time? #debatenight -- The Libertarian Prof (@TLProfessor) October 20, 2016

This four-minute figure may be "out there," but it's certainly alarming how casually Hillary Clinton talks about sensitive matters of national security.

Almost as sloppy as hosting a private server without government security and transmitting classified and sensitive material via email.

Editor's note: This article was updated after publication.
