Hillary Reveals America's Nuclear Response Time During The Debate

During the final presidential debate, the candidates got into a heated exchange about the use of nuclear weapons, in which Hillary Clinton trotted out her talking point that Donald Trump is unfit to have his finger on the button because of his lack of self-control. What made the internet go nuts, however, was when she added one specific detail to her argument that some are saying is a violation of operational security, a routine she knows well.

In the clip, after calling out Trump for being "casual about the use of nuclear weapons," Hillary then casually pops off the exact response time our government would have during an attack.

"Here's the deal," Hillary tells Chris Wallace and the entire planet watching live, "The bottom line on nuclear weapons is that when the president gives the order it must be followed. There's about four minutes between the order being given and the people responsible for launching nuclear weapons to do so."

No one caught that Crooked Hillary stated on LIVE TV what our NUKE RESPONSE TIME IS 4 MIN??@FoxNews @DRUDGE #debatenight #ChrisWallace pic.twitter.com/QBbbmGkmeL -- John T. Miller (@cyvault) October 20, 2016

Many in the Twittersefere were not pleased with Crooked Hillary's admission, seeing it as a blatant violation of operational security (OPSEC):

Did Hillary just leak TS information on national TV regarding nuclear response time? #debatenight -- The Libertarian Prof (@TLProfessor) October 20, 2016

#DebateNight Did Hillary just tell the entire world what our nuclear response time is? WHAT THE ACTUAL F**K!?!?!? -- DeplorableComrade (@WrongThinkBlog) October 20, 2016

Hillary dropped, on live #debatenight, Response time between presidential order and nuclear missile launch. Info isis classified TS/NC2. -- Tharru (@VoxRomani) October 20, 2016

Hillary disclosed classified information tonight. HIGHLY classified information. Our nuclear response time is top secret. -- Deplorable American (@KFieLd_4TRUMP) October 20, 2016

Good thing Hillary told everyone about our nuclear response time. Yet another military strategy given to everyone -- The Original Pancake (@haydenchad20) October 20, 2016

Why did hillary give away nuclear response time on international television? Let me guess "she didn't know it was classified" #DebateNight -- Joseph Shaw (@harpandjoseph) October 20, 2016

Hillary tweeted the info out earlier but with slightly different wording, specifically the phrase "can take" rather than an implying a more exact time of four minutes. Many of her defenders use that wiggle room wording, and an article from Bloomberg back in September that suggests launches can take anywhere from 5 to 15 minutes, as evidence that she wasn't giving any information away.

When the president gives the order to launch a nuclear weapon, that's it. The officer has to launch. It can take as little as four minutes. -- Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) October 20, 2016

But, as Politico points out:

This four minute figure may be "out there," but it's certainly alarming how casually Hillary Clinton talks about sensitive matters of national security. Almost as sloppy as hosting a private server without government security and transmitting classified and sensitive material via email.

You may also remember last month when speaking at a Hillary rally, Vice President Biden, in the middle of ranting about Trump's unfitness to be in charge of the nuclear codes, casually pointed out his military aid who at that moment was carrying the briefcase with the codes known as the nuclear football:

My grandfather reacted to the first incident with a ''Biden's not all there.'' Can't wait for his reaction now. https://t.co/xufRaNguz6 -- Tom Rogan (@TomRtweets) September 1, 2016

Crooked Hillary, of course, has also demonstrated a complete lack of care for national security:

'How is that not classified?': Apparently Hillary Clinton had emails to President Obama on her private server https://t.co/QJsMe8TJWC -- Twitchy Team (@TwitchyTeam) September 23, 2016

But then again:

The full debate exchange about nuclear weapons below:

#DebateNight
