Advertisement - story continues below

During the final presidential debate Wednesday evening, Democrat nominee Hillary Clinton might have proven how well she handles sensitive information.

Clinton and GOP rival Donald Trump were discussing nuclear weapons when Clinton suggested that Trump would be too casual about the use of nuclear weapons.

She also told millions of viewers the response time our government would have during a nuclear attack.

Advertisement - story continues below

Moderator Chris Wallace may have missed this, but many others did not.

"The bottom line on nuclear weapons is that when the president gives the order, it must be followed. There's about four minutes between the order being given and the people responsible for launching nuclear weapons to do so," Clinton said.

Advertisement - story continues below

After receiving some backlash for revealing such sensitive information, she tried to backtrack, but no one's falling for it.

When the president gives the order to launch a nuclear weapon, that's it. The officer has to launch. It can take as little as four minutes. -- Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) October 20, 2016

Retired Army Lt. Gen. Keith Kellogg, who worked for the Joint Chiefs of Staff as director for all communications for U.S. forces and now advises the Trump campaign, responded to Clinton's attack, telling The Daily Caller Wednesday evening that it was "foolish to talk about any nuclear command control timing decision."

He said her cavalier statement corresponds to the cavalier attitude she had with the server in her basement, adding that it was "incredibly" foolish for anyone to do anything like that.

Advertisement - story continues below

Former intelligence officers and military operatives suggested Clinton's careless reference was a possible violation of operational security, known as OPSEC, Fox reported.

A former Navy SEAL officer told Fox that Clinton's statement appeared to be a "direct violation of U.S. national security protocols and governing law. Our country has no greater secrets than those that protect our strategic nuclear deterrence capability."

He added that Clinton's statement validated "with specificity something of great sensitivity that has long been speculated by our adversaries and others in the national arena, including academics and think tanks."

Clinton tried to suggest that Trump would be casual with nuclear weapons, but she has already proven how casual she is when it comes matters of national security -- more than once.

It's staggering to think of what else Clinton might let "slip" if she wins the election.

Share this story on Facebook and Twitter to let everyone know just how careless Clinton is when it comes to matters of national security.
