In what is being described as an historic lawsuit, it has been unveiled that Bernie Sanders may be the landslide winner of the 2016 California Primary Election.
Millions of provisional ballots have been found in the Golden State, none of which have been counted. Many news sites are claiming this is in breach of the voter's democratic rights. The proof of this is in these ballots.
Other websites are declaring Bernie Sanders the landslide winner of the 2016 California Primary election, not the now-official candidate for the Democratic Party, Hillary Clinton.
In order for this to be proven, the millions of uncounted ballots will have to be added to the existing list. This has emerged after a poll of polling station workers rated Sander's win as more than a 2 to 1 margin.
Clinton's Press Were Treated Like Royalty
Other issues have arisen from the press and cyber hackers treatment in California. It has been claimed that those supporting Clinton were given preferential treatment in the state.
Correct the Record (the PAC paying a million dollars to hackers who put child pornography on Sanders' Facebook pages and then got them closed down) was given the best filming location in San Pedro after that same prime filming location had been denied to news teams favorable to Sanders.
Even on election night, several reporters that publicly voiced support of Sanders commented on how poorly they were being treated. Many pro-Sanders press reporters were even denied access to the event.
Planned Before The Primary
An instructional video for poll workers in California told them to give provisional ballots to NPP voters. This is illegal in the state of California.
Other press agencies also called the election nomination for Clinton the night before. This was strange in itself as Clinton did not have enough pledged delegates at the time.
Sanders said of the June 7th primary:
"If there is a large turnout we will win. If there is a very large turnout we will win huge. If there is a low turnout, we will lose."
The following video gives more information on this news story:
