Obama most probably gave $400 million to the Iranians to release some hostages. However, now it seems that perhaps Hillary Clinton had given $400 million dollars to ISIS- by accident?!

The fact that four hostages were released makes us all happy, but giving that amount of money to possibly terrorist and not knowing what it will be used for- well, that's a frightening thought.

VIA Prntly

The White House tried to frame the money sent as anything but a ransom. They instead claimed it was the "first installment of the $1.7 billion in the United States seized in 1979 after an arms deal with the Shah of Iran was halted following the Islamic revolution."

But everyone can assume that it was really a ransom. No matter which way you frame it, people are going to suspect it was a ransom payment.

Well when asked about what Iran could potentially do with the money, the White House press secretary let slip that there could be a chance for them to use it for things other than aid. Well what they could use it for includes nuclear weapons or supporting other terrorist organizations. Because that is going to make you sleep peacefully at night.

Of course the media is going to try and spin this in the way that we got people back. Well that's all fine and good, but what about the cost? Nearly half a billion was spent on these people, and the money was "largely" spent on aid. Well I have a question for you then. What does "largely" mean?

It's a legitimate question. If they're trying to frame half the money used as "large" then it's not true at all. It has to be well over seventy five percent to be considered "large", at least to me. But if they are using half the money for aid, and half for other things, then this deal is a colossal failure.

Here is what the press secretary had to say on the matter. "We know that Iran supports Hezbollah and the Assad regime, and it certainly is possible that some of the money Iran has is being used for those purposes too. That's precisely why this administration on the front end has been deepening our engagement with our partners in the Middle East to counter those activities."

The suspicion about how much money is actually spent in order to encourage terrorism, is still present. It is positive that the four prisoners are free and alive, but this is not the way for our country to conduct with politics.
