President Obama quickly papered over the fact that he gave Iran $400,000,000 to release hostages, but it appears that now Hillary Clinton may have given ISIS $400,000,000 accidently.

So everyone can agree that the $400 million sent to Iran by President Obama can be viewed as skeptical. Yes we received hostages back, but at the same time Iran got all this money and who knows what they are going to do with it.

The White House tried to frame the money sent as anything but a ransom. They instead claimed it was the "first installment of the $1.7 billion in the United States seized in 1979 after an arms deal with the Shah of Iran was halted following the Islamic revolution."

But everyone can assume that it was really a ransom. No matter which way you frame it, people are going to suspect it was a ransom payment.

Well when asked about what Iran could potentially do with the money, the White House press secretary let slip that there could be a chance for them to use it for things other than aid. Well what they could use it for includes nuclear weapons or supporting other terrorist organizations. Because that is going to make you sleep peacefully at night.

Of course the media is going to try and spin this in the way that we got people back. Well that's all fine and good, but what about the cost? Nearly half a billion was spent on these people, and the money was "largely" spent on aid. Well I have a question for you then. What does "largely" mean?

It's a legitimate question. If they're trying to frame half the money used as "large" then it's not true at all. It has to be well over seventy five percent to be considered "large", at least to me. But if they are using half the money for aid, and half for other things, then this deal is a colossal failure.

Here is what the press secretary had to say on the matter. "We know that Iran supports Hezbollah and the Assad regime, and it certainly is possible that some of the money Iran has is being used for those purposes too. That's precisely why this administration on the front end has been deepening our engagement with our partners in the Middle East to counter those activities."

So once again, the question remains this: How much of that money was used to support these terrorist regimes? That has to be the most important thing to address. Don't get me wrong, I'm glad we got four people back, but this might be a deal that is going to haunt the United States for a long time.

Share this article if you are worried about what Iran is going to use some of that money for. Whether they use it for nuclear weapons or supporting terrorist organizations, it's natural to feel a little worried.

If you haven't checked out and liked our Facebook page, please go here and do so.

Leave a comment...
