Chelsea Clinton's NY Apartment is 'Listed Address' For Senior Care Facility, 'Metrocare Home Services Inc.'

After she had her Parkinson's "freeze" episode on Sunday, Hillary Clinton was rushed off for medical treatment but not at a hospital. People have been baffled why, when she was completely physically incapacitated, would she be taken to her daughter's incredibly expensive $11 million dollar apartment on the 4th floor of 21 East 26th Street. Perhaps your question would be answered if you knew that that exact same address was also the home of the Metrocare Home Services health center. Did we just blow your mind?

Guess what Chelsea Clinton's apartment (that HRC visited today) used to be? A home health center.https://t.co/mRD2xCazBt -- Martin Shkreli (@MartinShkreli) September 12, 2016

Pharmaceutical billionaire, Martin Shkreli, who lives nearby, was the first to point out that the address Hillary visited was actually home to a "health center". A quick trip to the New York State Department of Health website shows that Metrocare Home Services is closed or has merged with another facility.

Ok, kiddies, it's time to put your thinking caps on now and figure this thing out with me.

The luxury apartment building that Chelsea and her husband live in is the epitome of decadence and indulgence. Imagine what it would be like to live in an apartment that spanned an entire New York City block like this one does. And we are to believe that this incomprehensible amount of living space, literally enough for 40 - 50 people, is only occupied by a newly-married couple and their newborn baby? That's the equivalent of using a football field as a play area for a single child.

But what if the space was needed for more than Chelsea's little nascent family?

Chelsea Clinton's NY Apartment Is Listed Address For A Senior Citizen Care Facility, "Metrocare Home Services Inc." https://t.co/DwpeZHSlFG -- Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) September 12, 2016

Now imagine, if you will, how much room would be needed for the world's most visible and infamous politician who not only is running a campaign for president, but also sick with a variety of illnesses and diseases and requires a full-time medical staff to keep her up and running. So now we have Hillary, Bill, a dozen Secret Service agents, various handlers as well as Hillary's full-time doctors and nurses. Her medical attendants needs a place away from prying eyes to conduct the needed medical treatments to manage her Parkinson's Disease, blood clots, and the repercussions from her brain injury.

What better place to have to do all that than an entire medical facility that conveniently has "merged with another facility".

Now suddenly, having such a massive apartment block makes perfect sense.

It's not an apartment for the newlyweds, it's a secret medical compound for treatments done in private. That's why the catatonic Hillary was rushed there and not to a general hospital.

She has her own secret hospital facility, and it's hidden right in plain sight. If not for the mobile phone video from Sunday, none of this would ever have come out.

But guess what? Now you know...
