Subcortical Vascular Dementia

Doctor says Hillary Clinton appears to have Parkinson's

Secret Service agent confirms Hillary Clinton's serious disease status

Hillary's motorcade includes a private ambulance, gurney and EMT rescue workers wearing bulletproof vests

Hillary Clinton passes out at memorial event, has to be rushed to medical assistance

Bottom line: Hillary Clinton might croak before election day... or shortly thereafter

(NaturalNews) Hillary Clinton's deplorable health may be far worse than we're being told. A shocking new video shows her legs collapsing out from under her while she is held up by strong-armed security men, then stumbling off the curb and collapsing face first into a waiting van.That video, shown at this Youtube link , reveals Clinton to be the "walking dead," as if she's going to literally collapse and expire at any moment.The same shocking event was captured in another video from a different angle. Click here to view the second video (17 seconds). As you can see from this video, her Secret Service agents are primarilyof Hillary's disastrous (deplorable?) health status. They are now "human shields" against videography.As is now obvious to any intelligent person, Hillary's health concerns are far, far worse than anything reported in the mainstream media. It now looks likeThe videos shown below are stunning in what they depict: A corrupt, criminal tyrant who deeply desires power over others... wobbling, collapsing, stumbling, with headas if her neck is on a loose swivel... then collapsing face forward into the waiting van.See the full videos here:According to a self-proclaimed medical school professor in another video shown below, Hillary Clintonwhich usually gives patients just a 3-5 year life expectancy. She also just, according to sources (see below), and had to be rushed for medical assistance. Click here to watch the first video , which includes this text description:In this video interview on Next News Network , Dr. Ted Noel explains to Gary Franchi that Hillary Clinton has a disease which disqualifies her from holding public office.From the description:In this third video, Dr. Ted Noel details even more revelations about Hillary Clinton losing consciousness during public speaking events and even a U.S. Secret Service agent confirming the seriousness of her disease.What's astonishing is how serious neurological coughing fits, public fainting and obvious public seizures are being dismissed by the complicit mainstream media as "allergies" or even "conspiracy theories." This video by Dr. Ted Noel is the best summary yet of Hillary Clinton's serious neurological disease status.Finally, this video from Infowars reveals video proof of bulletproof vest-wearing EMT workers with a gurney and an ambulance as part of Hillary Clinton's motorcade.From the video description:On top of all this, "Hillary Clinton had a 'medical episode' that required her to leave a 9/11 commemoration ceremony early on Sunday," reports Fox News That video is the one shown at the top of this article.It's not just that Hillary Clinton is a lying traitor and "political criminal" who has sold out America to the highest bidder -- see The Clinton Files white paper on NewsTarget.com -- it's also that Hillary Clinton is obviously and irrefutablyIf any Republican showed all these symptoms, the entire leftist media would be demanding they step aside for health reasons. Yet Hillary's very obvious seizures and neurological fits are beyond alarming... they are
