2389 SHARES Facebook Twitter Reddit Stumbleupon









After the resignation of Donald Trumpas campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, the anever in her right minda former Governor of Alaska, Sarah Palin, put her two cents in on Twitter. She gracefully tweeted:

aGood for Trump; the WIMPY thing for a boss to do is NOT can someone when it just isnat working out. Itas all about accountability.a

But that wasnat all, if you look at the tweet below, you will notice she made sure to include the American Flag AND the flag of the Russian Federation. That is so classy Ms Palin.

Good for Trump; the WIMPY thing for a boss to do is NOT can someone when it just isn't working out. It's all about accountability ozZozS a Sarah Palin (@SarahPalinUSA) August 19, 2016

Manafortas resignation came shortly after damaging evidence surfaced about his consulting work for the prior Ukrainian President, Viktor Yanukovych. His ties to this past work showed him in a pro-Russian light, which is convenient with all of the rumors about Trumpas association with Vladimir Putin and family.

Trump himself claimed first claimed he was fired because he was a distraction but then we were told he had resigned, who knows which one is right for this campaign of lies that Trump has created.

Either way, when is Sarah Palin going to wander too far into the Alaskan wilderness and get trampled by a moose or eaten by a bear?

Palinas tweet with a hilarious amount of replies from twitter followers all over the web.

@SarahPalinUSA Accountability like working your full term as governor? ddd





a Marky Mark Twain (@OldManRiver1800) August 19, 2016

@SarahPalinUSA Crawl back under your rock, you low-IQ hypocrite. pic.twitter.com/VTF6k9GZsW a Gherkin Spork (@DharmaMidget) August 19, 2016

. @SarahPalinUSA lmao so when do you think McCain should've dropped your albatross ass? a Intel&NerfThis (@intelSEBASTIAN) August 19, 2016

Though her random comments are kind of funny, especially when she is obviously intoxicated, we donat need her distraction, Trump is enough of a circus all on his own.

Hereas a video that will give you a laugh at some of Palinas most amazing moments.

Featured Image Via Massroots
