We've been told for years that Hillary Clinton "fell" and suffered a concussion, which led to brain clots. It turns out she actually had a near fatal plane crash and it was covered up.According to a report released by Wikileaks, Hillary Clinton was in a C-12 Huron aircraft that made an emergency landing at Ahwaz International Airport on the border of Iran and Iraq, skidding off the runway and crashing, leaving Clinton "unconscious and bleeding profusely" according to the report.

See Wikileaks Documents Below

For years we have been given the story over and over again that Hillary Clinton is fine and she is perfectly healthy. The story line gradually morphed into Hillary "fell" and suffered a concussion, which then, in turn, led to brain clots. Well, color me NOT surprised but apparently that was all a lie told by a couple that wouldn't know the truth if it bit them!





Wikileaks has released another round of emails exposing some MAJOR bombshells surrounding Hillary. In this latest batch of emails, Wikileaks reveals that Hillary Clinton was apparently in a C-12 Huron aircraft that was forced to make an emergency landing at Ahwaz International Airport. This airport happens to be located on the border of Iran and Iraq. The landing was clearly less than smoother -- more of a crash landing causing the aircraft to skid off the runway and crash. This left Hillary "unconscious and bleeding profusely" according to the reports released by Wikileaks.

The report indicates that Hillary was on some sort of secret mission and traveling with the members of Seal team 4. One of the members of that team was reportedly killed when the aircraft crash-landed. The government had previously claimed that Commander Job W. Price died of a possible "suicide." His death was listed as a non-combat related injury. Commander Price was a leader of this highly specialized American Special Forces unit. Their mission was to protect high-ranking diplomats traveling in Middle Eastern and Asian combat zones.

US military flight logs recorded by Russian air and space forces confirm that Commander Price, and other members of US Navy Seal Team 4, left their base in Urozgan Province, Afghanistan on a flight to US Naval Support Activity Bahrain where they met up with the then-Secretary of State, Hillary, and all of them transferred to the C-12 Huron and proceeded to fly to Baghdad.

Within minutes of leaving Bahrain airspace, the C-12 Huron carrying Hillary and her US Navy Seal protectors, "without notice," deviated from their assigned flight path for unknown reasons. They then headed directly towards Iran's Ahwaz International Airport. Coincidentally, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had previously landed on an "unscheduled" visit.

See Wikileaks documents below:



source
