The Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) distributed "watered-down" HIV/AIDS drugs to people in sub-Saharan Africa, increasing the likelihood or morbidity and mortality, according to a draft congressional report.

The report was obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation and is titled, "The Clinton Foundation and The India Success Story." Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), vice-chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, initiated the report.

Richard Pollock reports:

According to a press release by the DOJ from May 2013, Ranbaxy agreed to pay $500 million and pled guilty in the matter.

"This is the largest false claims case ever prosecuted in the District of Maryland, and the nation's largest financial penalty paid by a generic pharmaceutical company for FDCA violations," said U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein. "The joint criminal and civil settlement, which reflects many years of work by FDA agents and federal prosecutors, holds Ranbaxy accountable for a pattern of violations and should improve the reliability of generic drugs manufactured in India by Ranbaxy."

"When companies sell adulterated drugs, they undermine the integrity of the FDA's approval process and may cause patients to take drugs that are substandard, ineffective, or unsafe," said Stuart F. Delery, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division of the Department of Justice. "We will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to ensure that all manufacturers of drugs approved by the FDA for sale in the United States, both domestic and foreign, follow the FDA guidelines that protect all of us."

Frankly, the FDA is a joke and so are many of the pharmaceutical companies. Many of the side effects of their products are worse than whatever it is they are supposed to be treating.

Blackburn was interviewed by The Daily Caller Foundation and said, "The question becomes, 'How many people lost their lives, how many people found it was a false promise?'"

Rep. Blackburn first delivered her report to the inspector generals at the Department of Health and Human Services and to the Department of State at the time that Hillary Clinton was serving as Secretary of State during Barack Hussein Obama Soetoro Sobarkah's first term.

Pollock goes on to point out:

The congressional study also highlighted the unseemly ties between Bill [Clinton] and two controversial Indian-Americans who have been investigated and sanctioned by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The most troubling revelations concern the Clinton Foundation's vigorous promotion of Ranbaxy despite mounting evidence the Indian firm had persistently poor quality control and attempted to cover it up through either faulty or fraudulent reporting to the FDA.

It is unclear at this juncture how many AIDS patients received the "watered-down" drugs.

ProPublica estimated that in 2007 alone, the U.S. Agency for International Development allocated $9 million to Ranbaxy and delivered "more than $1.8 million packages."

"Substandard HIV medicines cause health problems for patients, perhaps even accelerating death from HIV-related infections," Roger Bate, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute who researches substandard and counterfeit medicines, told TheDCNF.



CHAI remained a part of the Clinton Foundation until 2010 and then it became its own entity.

Millions of dollars were poured into these drugs with the false hope that they would help those who took them.

"You think about the emotional state of health care workers as they are dealing with these individuals and the emotional state of the patients. To me it's disturbing and very sad," Blackburn said.

So, what is to be done about this? Will it just go on top of the big pile of documentation that the Clintons and their bogus money laundering foundation are, in fact, criminal? More than likely the same thing that we have seen with the rest of the Clinton scandals, nothing.
