Last week, before the Democrat nominee's public stumble at the 9/11 memorial on Sunday, 71 percent of doctors polled said that Hillary Clinton's health problems "could be disqualifying."

Concerns about the former secretary of State's health are "serious -- could be disqualifying for the position of President of the U.S.," according to 71 percent of physicians responding to an informal Internet survey by the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons (AAPS). About 20 percent said such concerns were "likely overblown, but should be addressed as by full release of medical records." Only 2.7 percent dismissed them as "just a political attack; I have confidence in the letter from her physician and see no cause for concern."

More than 78 percent of those surveyed said the health concerns had received "not enough emphasis" in the media, while only 2.7 percent said the media had shown "too much emphasis." Over 81 percent were aware of Clinton's history of a concussion (in 2012), while only 59 percent knew about her cerebral sinus thrombosis, and 52 percent knew of her deep venous thrombosis.

Only 10 percent of these doctors said a candidate's health was "off limits for public discussion," while 66 percent said a doctor who had concerns about a candidate's health "should make concerns known to the public." Eleven percent said a physician should "keep silent unless he had personally examined the patient."

The poll surveyed 250 physicians and surgeons. Some might discount these results, due to the fact that AAPS was founded in 1944 to oppose socialized medicine, and that Ron Paul ranks among its members. AAPS filed suit in 2010 to overturn Obamacare, and Clinton is well-known for pushing a version of socialized medicine known as "HillaryCare" during her husband's presidency.

Nevertheless, membership in the organization is limited to licensed physicians, and the poll focused only on health issues, not political stances.

It would be interesting to see how these physicians would respond to this past weekend's events.
