Judicial Watch has just confirmed what we knew all along, that Hillary and Obama were selling weapons to ISIS!!!

But in a country that does not pay attention, what difference does it make?

If this were a Republican admin doing this it would be 24.7 news!

Conservative Base reports:

U.S. intelligence documents released to a government watchdog have confirmed suspicions that the United States and some of its so-called coalition partners had actually facilitated the rise of al-Qaida in Iraq (AQII) which became ISIS as an effective adversary against the government of the Syrian dictator President Assad. In addition, ISIS members were initially trained by members and hired contractors from the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) at facilities in Jordan in 2012. The original goal was to weaken the Syrian government which had engaged in war crimes against their own people, according to a number of reports. The non-profit, non-partisan Judicial Watch -- a group known for its investigation of government corruption and abuse -- had obtained more than 100 pages of previously classified documents from both the US Department of Defense and Hillary Clinton's poorly run State Department through a federal lawsuit. One of the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) documents declared that President Obama and his counterparts within the anti-Assad coalition considered the establishment of a Salafist organization in eastern Syria in order to hasten the downfall of the Assad regime. "And this is exactly what the supporting powers to the (Syrian) opposition want, in order to isolate the Syrian regime," said the DIA report, which had been formerly classified until its release.

The ever present leftist philosophy that "Ends always justifies the means!". Sell guns to terrorists as long as they are blowing up the right people!

Again I ask...when will America wake up to the insanity? Obama and Hillary know that they can get away with anything because America, for the most part, is not paying attention!

So sad!

This comes on the heals of WikiLeaks confirming the same:
