The Hillary Files reveals even more astonishing deception by Hillary Clinton

Like everything else, this earpiece evidence will be derided as a "conspiracy theory" by the radical left

Democrats willing to lie, cheat, steal and do anything to win

(NaturalNews) The depths of raw deception and dishonesty routinely displayed by Hillary Clinton is nothing short of astonishing. Now we learn thatduring last night's town hall debate with Trump.The earpiece, clearly visible in the photo below, is a violation of debate rules, allowing Hillary to receive audio from another "handler" who tells her what to say. Actor James Woods tweeted a picture of the earpiece, point out, "She can't even #lie without help from a gaggle of other #liars through an earpiece." ( Twitter source ).The obvious presence of this earpiece points to several huge revelations about Hillary Clinton and her failing campaign:1) She is willing to lie, cheat and deceive to almost any degree in her bid for the White House.2) Her campaign has no confidence in her ability to answer questions using her own brain. She must now be "handled" in real time in order to create the impression that she knows what she's talking about.3) She has no respect for rules or laws of any kind. In the mind of Hillary Clinton,, even though she and her supporters routinely invoke rules and laws to condemn and attack others.Take a look at the earpiece yourself, in this photo from the event:Just this week, NewsTarget.com released "The Hillary Files" white paper detailing Hillary's long history of deception and pre-sales of White House influence to international operators. Click here to download The Hillary Files white paper now (PDF). It explores the details of how she has betrayed human rights, women's rights, health freedom and even the environment by allowing foreign interests to pre-purchase her planned presidency.And now we know, include cheating during debates.Like all other "inconvenient facts" that reveal the brazen dishonesty, incompetence and criminal intent of Hillary Clinton, this earpiece will be derided as a "conspiracy theory" by Clinton operators.Yet it was leftists themselves who once proclaimed George W. Bush was wearing a secret listening device during his 2004 debate with John Kerry. as this Washington Examiner story details the incredible hypocrisy of the leftist media that attacked Bush, but excuses Clinton:What really characterizes modern-day Democrats is their willingness to lie, cheat, steal and even have people murdered in order to win the election. There is no limit to their mafia-style criminal actions and deceptive intent.I find it beyond bizarre that the FBI's James Comey let Hillary off the hook with her deleted emails, claiming he could not prove "intent." Yet we later find out that Hillary used BleachBit software to wipe every data byte clean from her email server -- an action that obviously cannot be pursued without intent.It doesn't take a genius prosecutor to establish intent when someone wipes their server clean to eliminate all evidence of her crimes.The bottom line: Democrat political operatives (and their supporters) are dishonest, deceptive, unethical people who justify the ends by any means that might be necessary. There are no limits to their treachery... no tactics are out of bounds, including the murder of those who once had dirt on the Clintons.Search GoodGopher for the phrase "Clinton Body Count" and discover what else CNN isn't telling you about the Clintons... going way back to the era of "Arkancide" and cocaine running through Mena, Arkansas There's sooooo much you don't know about the Clintons and their nefarious, criminal operations spanning decades. No wonder she needs a listening device in every debate: She's told so many lies to so many people for so many years that she can't possibly keep them all straight without outside help.
