Actor Tony Goldwyn, television producer Shonda Rhimes and actress Kerry Washington (R) arrive on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

NBA basketball player John Wall and guest arrive on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actor Scott Foley and Marika Dominczyk arrive on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Bill Nye the Science Guy arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actor Morgan Freeman arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Model Kendall Jenner arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry (L), his wife Teresa Heinz and daughter Alexandra Kerry and guest arrive on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

The View cast (L-R), Paula Faris, Michelle Collins, Raven Simone, Joy Behar and Candace Cameron-Bure, arrive on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actor Keegan-Michael Key arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Former Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Newt Gingrich and wife, Callista, arrive on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actress Lisa Edelstein arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Donald Trump Jr. and wife Vanessa arrive on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actor Jesse Williams arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actor Damian Lewis arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actress Neve Campbell arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actress Constance Zimmer arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actress Bellemy Young arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actress Emma Watson arrives on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

Actors Damien Lewis (L) and Vivica A. Fox (R) arrive on the red carpet for the annual White House Correspondents Association Dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

U.S. President Barack Obama stands during a presentation of colors at the White House Correspondents Association's annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

U.S. President Barack Obama stands between WHCA President Carol Lee and Jerry Seib of The Wall Street Journal during a presentation of colors at the White House Correspondents Association's annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

U.S. President Barack Obama and First lady Michelle Obama stand during a presentation of colors at the White House Correspondents Association's annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY

U.S. President Barack Obama greets White House Correspondents' Association (WHCA) President Carol Lee at the White House Correspondents' Association annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

U.S. President Barack Obama looks as Jerry Seib of The Wall Street Journal offers him a toast at the White House Correspondents' Association annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

U.S. President Barack Obama listens to comedian Larry Wilmore at the White House Correspondents' Association annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

U.S. President Barack Obama laughs at the White House Correspondents' Association annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

U.S. President Barack Obama says 'Obama out!' at the White House Correspondents' Association annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at the White House Correspondents' Association annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

U.S. President Barack Obama and First lady Michelle Obama kiss each other at the White House Correspondents' Association annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at the White House Correspondents Association's annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

U.S. President Barack Obama waves at the White House Correspondents' Association annual dinner in Washington, U.S., April 30, 2016. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

WASHINGTON U.S. President Barack Obama on Saturday took aim at Democrats and Republicans alike in his final appearance headlining the star-studded White House correspondents' dinner, but saved his sharpest barbs for Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump.

"The Republican establishment is incredulous that he's their most likely nominee," Obama told attendees at the black-tie event, which brought together journalists and media moguls with Hollywood stars and power brokers from Capitol Hill and beyond.

"They say Donald lacks the foreign policy experience to be president. But in fairness he has spent years meeting with leaders from around the world: Miss Sweden, Miss Argentina, Miss Azerbaijan," the president said to howls of laughter, referring to contestants on the Miss Universe pageant that Trump formerly co-owned.

Obama made fun of the angst many in the Republican establishment have expressed at the prospect that Trump or Tea Party candidate Ted Cruz could win the party's nomination to run in the Nov. 8 presidential election.

"Guests were asked to check whether they wanted steak or fish, but instead a whole bunch of you wrote in Paul Ryan," Obama said, referring to the top Republican in the House of Representatives, who many have hoped could be lured into running for president.

"That's not an option people," Obama said, displaying comedic chops perfected through seven previous appearances at the annual dinner. "You may not like steak or fish, but that's your choice."

In his remarks, Obama looked back on his presidency and jokingly predicted the country may be nearing its doom.

"The end of the republic has never looked better," the tuxedo-clad president said looking out at the well-groomed crowd as he blasted Republican Party Chairman Reince Priebus.

"Congratulations on all your success," Obama told Priebus, while wearing a sarcastic grin. "The Republican party, the nomination process - it's all going great."

Larry Wilmore, the host of a show on cable outlet Comedy Central, took his own shots at Trump when he took the podium after Obama, joking that next year the dinner will be called: "Donald Trump presents a luxurious evening paid for by Mexico."

Trump has famously promised to build a wall between the United States and Mexico to prevent illegal immigration, and he has said he would force Mexico to pay for it.

With a bit of nostalgia, Obama reflected on his more than seven years in office, saying he had been a young man of idealism and vigor before he became president.

"Eight years ago I said it was time to change the tone of our politics," Obama said. "In hindsight, I clearly should have been more specific."

(Reporting by Megan Cassella; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Kim Coghill)
