Photo

WASHINGTON -- Despite intense support among his followers for his proposals for a Mexican border wall and a ban on Muslim immigration, Donald J. Trump will face trouble with independent voters on immigration in the November election, according to a survey published on Thursday by the Public Religion Research Institute and the Brookings Institution, nonpartisan research organizations.

In the poll, among Americans who said they were independents, only 40 percent favored building a wall, and the same minority supported a ban on immigration by Muslims. Among independents, 43 percent favored a law to prevent Syrian refugees from coming to the United States, another proposal by Mr. Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.

Over all, 58 percent of respondents said they opposed a border wall. But among people who said they supported Mr. Trump, 82 percent favored the plan for a wall, reflecting the deep polarization in this election season.

Mr. Trump also appears to be out of step with independents and the majority of Americans on his proposal to deport 11 million immigrants who are in the country illegally. In the survey, 78 percent of independents -- and the same percentage of Americans over all -- said those immigrants should be allowed to become American citizens or legal residents, while 21 percent favored deportation. Despite the fierce arguments over immigration issues in the presidential campaigns, support for a path to legal status for undocumented immigrants has not changed since 2013, the survey found.

Mr. Trump's promises to crack down on illegal immigration and to restrict the legal flow of people from Muslim countries were enormously popular with voters in the Republican primary. But for the general election, Mr. Trump will have to expand his support to include independents and Democrats attracted to his pledges to rebuild the American economy.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump's positions were "a winning strategy for the Republican primary but are not connected to where the country is as a whole," said Robert P. Jones, chief executive of the Public Religion Research Institute, known as PRRI. "If Trump continues to double and triple down on that message, he may run into a wall with independent voters."

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The survey found that Americans' views of immigration are not closely tied to their experience with immigrants. Only 22 percent of Americans in the poll said immigrants were having a significant impact on their communities. But about twice as many -- 39 percent -- said immigrants were significantly changing the society at large. Among Republicans, while 25 percent said immigrants were changing their communities, 51 percent said immigrants were changing the society.

"The perception differences are more rooted in ideology and partisanship," Mr. Jones said.

Among white Americans who said immigrants were changing the country, nearly six in 10 -- 58 percent -- said the change was negative. By contrast, among Hispanic Americans who saw immigrants changing the society, seven in 10 -- or 72 percent -- said the impact was positive.

Americans' views are shaped by increasing fears of terrorism, according to the survey, which was conducted before the massacre in Orlando, Fla., by a gunman pledging allegiance to the Islamic State. Half of Americans -- 51 percent -- said they feared that they or a relative could be a victim of an attack, an increase of 18 points since late 2014.

Supporters of Mr. Trump are especially likely to be wary of foreign influence in American life, with 83 percent saying that influence needs to be curtailed. The same percentage of Trump supporters say the Islamic faith is at odds with American values, according to the poll.

The report is based on a bilingual survey in English and Spanish of 2,607 adults in the United States conducted from April 4 to May 2. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points for all adults at the 95 percent level of confidence.
