Technical problems are not what Amazon or its customers wanted to see on the company's second annual Prime Day, a day of deals for members of its Prime service.

As customers looked to take advantage of special discounts during the much-hyped shopping event, many reported problems during the checkout process.

In a tweet, Amazon acknowledged the problems and said that it was "working to resolve this issue quickly." About two hours later, a company representative said that the issue had been resolved.

Tuquyen Mach, a stay-at-home-mom in Centreville, Virginia, told ABC News that she had problems on several Amazon platforms while attempting to purchase a video game for her husband.

Some customers are reporting difficulty with checkout. We're working to resolve this issue quickly. -- Amazon (@amazon) July 12, 2016

After attempting to take advantage of special discounts for customers who use Amazon's Echo -- the company's voice-controlled wireless speaker -- she turned to her mobile phone to try to make the purchase using the company's app and later its website.

"It told me that it was already in my cart and wouldn't let me check out. When I went to my cart, it was gone," she said. "That was incredibly frustrating."

Later, the service wouldn't let her make any more attempts. "It said I had already taken advantage of the deal when I hadn't."

"When I went to my orders page, it obviously wasn't there," she said, adding that she also tried to make her purchase using her desktop computer.

Other customers reported similar problems.

John Gann, a pastor in Fort Worth, Texas, said that he had taken the day off, in part to shop online.

"I woke up early, found a couple of deals. Went to the first one, clicked 'Add to cart,' and it gives you a message, 'Cart failed' or 'Failed to add to cart,'" he said. "I finally was able to add two items to the cart, but it probably took 45 minutes to get those in the cart."

"I think I'm probably done with Prime Day, to be honest," he said, adding that he would see what competing deals other retailers had.

Amazon publicized the event for weeks and hoped that it would be be a summertime shopping blockbuster.

Last year's Prime Day, the retailer's first, received some negative reviews, with customers complaining about products that sold out too quickly.
