Hillary Clinton has accepted the Democratic party's presidential nomination Thursday night in Philadelphia, making history as the first woman to be chosen to run for the highest office in the land by a major party in the United States.

"Today, we've reached a milestone in our nation's march toward a more perfect union: The first time that a major party has nominated a woman for President," Clinton said. "Standing here as my mother's daughter's, and my daughter's mother, I'm so happy this day has come."

"Happy for grandmothers and little girls and everyone in between. Happy for boys and men, too, because when any barrier falls in America, for anyone, it clears the way for everyone," she continued. "When there are no ceilings, the sky's the limit."

Clinton was clearly emotional as she walked on stage, and said: "I'm so happy this day has come."

The former secretary of state, introduced by her daughter Chelsea, drew on the historic roots of Philadelphia as a way to reiterate one of her campaign slogans.

"Our Founders embraced the enduring truth that we are stronger together," she said. "America is once again at a moment of reckoning."

Early in her speech, she thanked her formal rival Sen. Bernie Sanders, who urged his supporters to support Clinton despite their differences.

"Bernie, your campaign inspired millions of Americans, particularly the young people who threw their hearts and souls into our primary," Clinton said.

"And to all of your supporters here and around the country: I want you to know, I've heard you. Your cause is our cause. Our country needs your ideas, energy, and passion," she said.

Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images

Throughout the speech, she took aim at her Republican rival, Donald Trump, casting him as capitalizing on fear to divide the country and saying he lacked the temperament to be president.

"He's taken the Republican Party a long way, from 'Morning in America' to 'Midnight in America.' He wants us to fear the future and fear each other," she said.

Later she took issue with Trump's comments about the military and his supposed superior knowledge about ISIS.

"He loses his cool at the slightest provocation...Imagine if you dare, imagine him in the Oval Office facing a real crisis," Clinton said. "A man you can bait with a tweet is not a man you can trust with nuclear weapons."

She also blasted him for his controversial remarks, including attacking John McCain for being captured in Vietnam.

"It was just too hard to fathom -- that someone who wants to lead our nation could say those things. Could be like that," Clinton said. "But here's the sad truth: There is no other Donald Trump...This is it. And in the end, it comes down to what Donald Trump doesn't get: that America is great -- because America is good."

Throughout her remarks, particularly at the beginning, pockets of protesters jeered and booed at Clinton. Her supporters tried to drown them out with chants of, "Hillary, Hillary."

One of her best-received lines came when she talked about her plans to increase gun control.

"I'm not here to repeal the 2nd Amendment. I'm not here to take away your guns. I just don't want you to be shot by someone who shouldn't have a gun in the first place," she said.

Clinton's speech was the final address of the Democratic National Convention. It was the first time she was formally addressing the convention, though it isn't the first time she's been spotted.

On Tuesday night, hours after she was formally nominated by the roll call and by Bernie Sanders' move for a voice vote, she spoke via video message from New York. And then on Wednesday night, she went on stage to thank President Obama after his speech.
