Indiana Gov. Mike Pence comments on the negativity and tone of the political team he joins today as presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump's running mate. The presumptive vice presidential nominee joined Trump today for the candidates' first joint interview. The sit-down at Trump's New York residence was conducted by Lesley Stahl and will be broadcast on 60 Minutes Sunday, July 17 at 7 p.m. ET/PT.

Aaron Tomlinson, CBS News

The following is an excerpt from the interview:

Lesley Stahl: You said negative campaigning is wrong and a campaign ought to demonstrate the basic decency of the candidate.

Mike Pence: Right.

Lesley Stahl: With that in mind, what do you think about your running mate's campaign and the tone and the negativity of it?

Mike Pence: I think this is a good man who's been talking about the issues the American people care about.

Lesley Stahl: But name-calling?

Mike Pence: In that--

Lesley Stahl: "Lyin' Ted?"

Mike Pence: In the essay that I wrote a long time ago, I said campaigns ought to be about something more important than just one candidate's election. And this campaign and Donald Trump's candidacy has been about the issues the American people care about. They see America in decline at home and abroad, they see--

Lesley Stahl: You're saying--

Mike Pence: They see our--

Lesley Stahl: --it hasn't been--

Mike Pence: --porous borders--

Lesley Stahl: --negative?

Mike Pence: --and a Congress that's unable to balance its budgets or deal with and end illegal immigration. They want a leader, they want leadership in Washington D.C. that will solve problems and strengthen our country so--

Lesley Stahl: But what about the negative side? He's apologized for being a negative--

Donald Trump: We're different people. I understand that. I'll give you an example. Hillary Clinton is a liar. Hillary Clinton-- that was just proven--

Lesley Stahl: That's--

Donald Trump: --last week.

Lesley Stahl: --that's negative--

Donald Trump: Hillary Clinton-- you better believe it. Hillary Clinton is a crook.

Lesley Stahl: That's negative--

Donald Trump: I call her "Crooked Hillary." She's crooked Hillary. He won't-- I-- I don't-- I didn't ask him to do it, but I don't think he should do it because it's different for him.
