Media caption Bernie Sanders: "She must become our next president"

Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton has received an endorsement from her former rival Bernie Sanders.

The Vermont senator and former Democratic presidential candidate appeared with Mrs Clinton at a campaign event in New Hampshire.

Mrs Clinton and Mr Sanders have been negotiating since she all but guaranteed the nomination in June.

Mr Sanders hopes to have a large influence on the Democratic platform.

"She will be the Democratic nominee for president and I intend to do everything I can to make certain she will be the next president of the United States," he said.

"This campaign is about the needs of the American people and addressing the very serious crises that we face. And there is no doubt in my mind that, as we head into November, Hillary Clinton is far and away the best candidate to do that."

Some Sanders supporters booed at the joint rally and Mr Sanders appeared to motion them to stop. At the end of Mrs Clinton's remarks, the two shared a hug and smiled.

Analysis - Anthony Zurcher, BBC North America Reporter

Bernie Sanders - a man who would probably talk about income inequality and Wall Street corruption during a wedding toast - wrapped an endorsement of Hillary Clinton into his standard campaign stump speech on Tuesday.

His usual lines about minimum wage increases, rebuilding infrastructure, affordable college education, healthcare reform and increased environmental protection were simply prefaced by "Hillary Clinton understands" and "Hillary Clinton knows".

Mr Sanders also asserted that his "revolution" will go on and that he will work to ensure that his success in pushing the Democratic Party platform to the left is reflected in the actions of Democratic officeholders going forward.

But Mrs Clinton got what she needed out of the event - an acknowledgment of her victory, a direct endorsement, a call for unity to defeat Republican Donald Trump, and a speech-ending hug between former adversaries.

There will continue to be some holdouts among Sanders supporters - a few walked out of the event early and at one point the Vermont senator motioned from the stage to quiet the angry shouts of a protestor - but New Hampshire's sometimes awkward political embrace and the prospect of a Trump presidency should assure Democratic cohesion at least until the November general election.

Mr Sanders defeated Mrs Clinton in New Hampshire's primary contest in February.

"Thank you for your lifetime of fighting injustice," said Mrs Clinton, and credited Mr Sanders for bringing new Americans into the political process.

"I'm proud to be fighting behind you... it's a time for all of us to stand together."

What will Bernie Sanders do next?

Why aren't we more excited about Clinton?

Who women want (in the White House)

Did the FBI just sink Clinton?

She spoke about student debt, Wall Street, raising the minimum wage, the US tax code, reforming policing, strengthening the middle class, climate change, health care and reducing gun violence.

His supporters have largely decided to support Mrs Clinton in an effort to stop presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump from winning the White House.

Image copyright AP Image caption Mr Sanders amassed many supporters during his campaign but could not beat Mrs Clinton's delegate lead

Mr Sanders stayed in the Democratic race far longer than many expected, for weeks after it became clear he would not secure the delegates needed to win the nomination.

He has pressed Mrs Clinton to support his views on higher education, health care and the minimum wage.

Image copyright Twitter

"It is no secret that Hillary Clinton and I disagree on a number of issues. That's what this campaign has been about. That's what democracy is about," said Mr Sanders.

"But I am happy to tell you that... there was a significant coming together between the two campaigns and we produced, by far, the most progressive platform in the history of the Democratic Party."

Mr Trump, who has been trying to court Sanders supporters, wrote in a tweet that Mr Sanders has "totally sold out to Crooked Hillary Clinton. Fans angry!"

"The candidate who ran against special interests is endorsing the candidate who embodies special interests," his campaign said in a release.
