At a capacity campaign event in Riviera Beach, Florida, Bill Clinton played campaign surrogate again for his wife, Hillary Clinton, but this time he was in Donald Trump's backyard, just next door to West Palm Beach. The former president was in his usual stump when a man in the crowd took off his shirt, revealing a concealed Donald Trump t-shirt.

The man waved a Trump campaign sign back and forth and bellowed in protest, "You took his money!" The crowd booed the protester and held up competing Hillary Clinton campaign signs that read, "You can't make America great with hate," a clear jab at Trump.

The former president swiftly engaged the protester from the podium, "I certainly did. I took his money for my foundation and used it better than he's using it now."

Interrupted by Trump supporter, @billclinton says his foundation used Trump's money "better than he's using it now."https://t.co/2ThdGx6gZa -- ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) February 15, 2016

The former president looked at the protester and then the crowd. "I remember when he called me to say how terrible the Republicans had been to Hillary and me and how unfair they were and what a brilliant job Hillary did as a senator," he continued. "By the way, a lot of them called me about that, which is why they spent the last three years trying to tear her down because they know if they nominate her they are going to have to eat the words they said."

Donald Trump has been a regular annual donor to the Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation. His last donation was between $100,000 and $250,000 in 2014. His daughter, Ivanka Trump, also gave between $5,000 and $10,000 that same year.

As the protester was escorted out by a Secret Service agent, the president took yet another jab at Trump.

"If you want to build a wall on the Rio Grande River and you want to send the 11 million immigrants home, then you should follow him like Moses into the Promised Land," said the former president, which caused the crowd to erupt into laughter.

This was President Clinton's first campaign stop in Florida this election cycle. The crowd did not appear to be disappointed at all, although they initially RSVPed for a Hillary Clinton event in this same location. The Clinton campaign said that Bill Clinton took over so that his wife can continue campaigning in Nevada before caucus day.
