Washington (CNN) Donald Trump and Ted Cruz warned fellow Republicans Wednesday of dire consequences if the GOP establishment attempts to have a brokered convention this summer.

"I think you'd have riots. I think you'd have riots," Trump said Wednesday on CNN's "New Day." "I'm representing a tremendous many, many millions of people."

The Republican Party veered closer to a contested convention Tuesday after Ohio Gov. John Kasich won his home state and deprived Trump, the party's front-runner, of its 66 delegates. That makes it more difficult for the billionaire to reach the 1,237 delegates he needs to capture the GOP prize without a floor fight.

In fact one of Trump's supporters said there would be riots if Trump didn't win the nomination at the convention, though riots themselves "aren't necessarily a bad thing."

"If it means because it's in there fighting the fact that our establishment Republican party has gone corrupt and decided to ignore the voice of the people and ignore the process," Trump supporter Scottie Neil Hughes told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on Wednesday.

She added, after being pressed specifically on the word "riot," "It's not riot as in a negative thing like what we've seen in the past, it's the fact that you have a large amount of people that will be very unhappy. I don't think they would sit there and resort, in fact I know they would not resort to violence, I know they would not do it. However, they would make sure their voices are heard, that they can't be ignored."

Earlier Wednesday, Cruz said party leaders getting behind a brokered convention would be disastrous.

"I think that would be an absolute disaster. I think the people would quite rightly revolt. The way to beat Donald Trump is at the ballot box," the Texas senator said on "New Day."

JUST WATCHED Contested convention? Trump's people have his back Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Contested convention? Trump's people have his back 01:44

"If it ends up happening that we get to Cleveland and nobody has 1,237 delegates, that Donald has a whole bunch of delegates and I have a whole bunch of delegates and we come in neck and neck, then it is up to delegates to decide," he added.

Republican National Committee Communications Director Sean Spicer said Wednesday that a chance for a brokered convention still remains.

"Of course. We're going to let the process work itself out," he told CNN's Carol Costello. "So from (an) RNC perspective, we're going to continue to prepare for all contingencies including an open convention."

But Spicer doesn't think there will be literal riots if Trump is not allowed to be a nominee.

"I assume he's speaking figuratively," he said. "I think if we go into a convention, whoever gets 1,237 delegates becomes the nominee. It's plain and simple."

Spicer added, "I think Republicans will have a very orderly process. We'll vote in the open. The delegates that are elected by Republican voters will go to Cleveland. If we get to a point where there needs to be more than one ballot, we'll do it in a very orderly and transparent way."

Paul Ryan slams door on potential 2016 GOP nomination



And Spicer dismissed the likelihood of a new candidate being introduced at a brokered convention. And Spicer dismissed the likelihood of a new candidate being introduced at a brokered convention.

"I feel confident that the nominee of the this party will be one of the remaining three individuals that is currently in the race," he said.

Despite Kasich's first win Tuesday night, Cruz said it makes no sense for the Ohio governor to remain in the race.

"It is mathematically impossible for John Kasich to become the nominee. At this point, he had lost 20 states before Ohio," Cruz said. "And so if you actually want to defeat Donald Trump, there's only one campaign that has done so over and over and over again. Nine different times all over the country, we have beaten Donald Trump."
