Story highlights They believe they have found evidence that vote totals in the three states could have been manipulated

There were widespread concerns about hacking ahead of this month's election

(CNN) Hillary Clinton's campaign is being urged by a number of top computer scientists to call for a recount of vote totals in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, according to a source with knowledge of the request.

The computer scientists believe they have found evidence that vote totals in the three states could have been manipulated or hacked and presented their findings to top Clinton aides on a call last Thursday.

The scientists, among them J. Alex Halderman, the director of the University of Michigan Center for Computer Security and Society, told the Clinton campaign they believe there is a questionable trend of Clinton performing worse in counties that relied on electronic voting machines compared to paper ballots and optical scanners, according to the source.

Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Nearly 1,000 students and faculty members at Rutgers University staged a rally in downtown New Brunswick, New Jersey, to protest President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday, November 16. At least 25 US cities have seen protests since Trump won the presidential election. Hide Caption 1 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Students hold signs in front of the Supreme Court in Washington during a protest on Tuesday, November 15. Hide Caption 2 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Activists use a banner to block traffic on Interstate 395 during an anti-Trump protest in Washington on Monday, November 14. Hide Caption 3 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Anti-Trump protesters in New York hung an upside-down American flag from the side of the Manhattan Bridge on November 14. Hide Caption 4 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators distribute safety pins as a sign of solidarity against intolerance during a rally against Trump in New York on Saturday, November 12. Hide Caption 5 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators march to Trump Tower in Chicago on November 12. Hide Caption 6 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election People protest Trump during a march in downtown Miami on Friday, November 11. Hide Caption 7 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Hundreds of Trump protesters hold a demonstration in New York's Washington Square Park on November 11. Hide Caption 8 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election A man walks by anti-Trump graffiti in downtown Oakland, California, on November 11. Thousands of protesters have wreaked havoc on the city during anti-Trump marches, causing vandalism, fires and destruction of property. Hide Caption 9 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election A protester kicks the window of a Bank of America branch in Portland, Oregon, on November 10. What started out as a peaceful march with more than 4,000 people quickly turned violent. Portland police publicly declared a "riot" because of "extensive criminal and dangerous behavior," according to posts on the department's Twitter page. Hide Caption 10 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators flood the 101 Freeway in Los Angeles on November 10. Hide Caption 11 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Police officers stand guard as they slowly clear Trump protesters from the 101 Freeway in Los Angeles on November 10. Hide Caption 12 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators protest in Denver on November 10. Hide Caption 13 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Police officers look on as someone protests in Portland on November 10. Hide Caption 14 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Trump protesters march toward Interstate 94 in Minneapolis on November 10. Hide Caption 15 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Numerous cars at a Toyota dealership were smashed as people protested in Portland on November 10. Hide Caption 16 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Trump protesters chant outside the White House on November 10. Hide Caption 17 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Protesters set an effigy of Trump on fire outside Los Angeles City Hall on Wednesday, November 9. Hide Caption 18 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators march down Second Avenue in Seattle on November 9. Hide Caption 19 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Police respond to a fire set by anti-Trump protesters in Oakland, California, on November 9. Police said some protesters threw Molotov cocktails, rocks and fireworks at officers. Hide Caption 20 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Protesters in Chicago display anti-Trump signs near the Trump International Hotel and Tower on November 9. Hide Caption 21 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Trump protesters take to the streets in Philadelphia on November 9. Hide Caption 22 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Thousands march down Fifth Avenue in New York on November 9. Authorities estimated as many as 5,000 people protested Trump's victory outside Trump Tower. Hide Caption 23 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Protesters rally against Trump in New York's Union Square on November 9. Hide Caption 24 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators march past Radio City Music Hall in New York on November 9. Hide Caption 25 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election People listen to speakers protesting Trump's election in Seattle on November 9. Hide Caption 26 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election A woman argues with police officers during a protest in New York on November 9. Erin Michelle Threlfall, the woman pictured, told The Huffington Post she was attempting to intervene on behalf of a man she says the police were beating. Hide Caption 27 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Sasha Savenko, left, and Sydney Kane join thousands of protesters in Seattle on November 9. Hide Caption 28 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Crowds rally outside Trump Tower in New York on November 9. Hide Caption 29 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Charles Watkins speaks out at an anti-Trump protest in Denver on November 9. Hide Caption 30 of 30

The group informed John Podesta, Clinton's campaign chairman, and Marc Elias, the campaign's general counsel, that Clinton received 7% fewer votes in counties that relied on electronic voting machines, which the group said could have been hacked.

Their group told Podesta and Elias that while they had not found any evidence of hacking, the pattern needs to be looked at by an independent review.

Read More
