Over the past month, Hillary Clinton has gone after Bernie Sanders on a host of issues as he's encroached on her in the polls: Guns, health care and his campaign's defining issue -- Wall Street reform.

Nothing's stuck with voters, however, and Clinton left New Hampshire forced to grapple with both her bruising 22-point loss in the state's primary and one existential question: How do you stop the Bern?

The answer, perhaps, nobody knows. But, as Clinton takes her message beyond the two early voting states, she's giving yet another strategy a shot -- now casting her opponent as a Marco Rubio-esque robot who can only engage on one-issue, and as anti-President Obama.

"I am not a single issue candidate, and this is not a single issue country," Clinton said Friday night during remarks at a campaign event in Minnesota, repeating a line she said earlier that day in South Carolina and at Thursday's Democratic debate. "Who can you count on to break down every barrier, not just some?" she asked the crowd.

The remarks refer to Sanders' laser focus on the rigged economy and corruption in politics -- a simple message that, so far, has resonated with his supporters. (Clinton herself co-opted the exact same "rigged economy" line in her own opening remarks at the last debate.)

As the candidates vie for the black vote ahead of the South Carolina primary, Clinton has cozied up to Obama, who is widely popular in the state, while pegging Sanders as being against him.

"The kind of criticism that we've heard from Sen. Sanders about our president, I expect from Republicans. I do not expect from someone running for the Democratic nomination to succeed President Obama," she said at the debate on Thursday.

She doubled down the next day showering President Obama with praise in South Carolina and Minnesota, while her campaign questioned Sanders' loyalty on Snapchat.

"President Obama doesn't get the credit he deserves...but from a candidate in the Democratic party?" two of the Snapchats from the official "Hillary Clinton" account read.

Sanders, however, had a sharp response to this criticism at the debate Thursday, which he called a "low blow."

"Last I heard, a United States senator had the right to disagree with the president including a president who has done such an extraordinary job," he retorted at Clinton. "This blurb that you talk about...that the next president of the United States has got to be aggressive in bringing people into the political process. That's what I said. That is what I believe."

Get real-time updates as this story unfolds. To start, just "star" this story in ABC News' phone app. Download ABC News for iPhone here or ABC News for Android here.
