During Monday night's presidential debate, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton referenced Miss Universe Alicia Machado's claim that Republican nominee Donald Trump called her "Miss Piggy" when she gained weight. Trump revisited the topic on Tuesday morning when he spoke in depth about the 1996 Miss Universe on "Fox and Friends."

In the debate, Trump repeatedly challenged Clinton over where she had heard that, then dismissed Clinton's comment that Machado would vote for her with "OK, good."

Trump told "Fox and Friends" it was a "real problem" when Machado gained significant weight after winning the pageant he then owned. He added that Machado was "the worst we ever had. The worst. The absolute worst. She was impossible."

"She was the winner, and she gained a massive amount of weight, and it was a real problem... not only that, her attitude," Trump said. "And Hillary went back into the years and... found the girl and talked about her like she was Mother Teresa, and it wasn't quite that way, but that's OK. Hillary has to do what she has to do."

Machado went on a diet in 1997 after saying she gained at least 15 pounds. Trump said during Machado's workout in front of the media that year that "she likes to eat -- like all of us" and supported her weight-loss efforts.

Clinton also said Monday night that Trump referred to the Venezuela-born Machado as "Miss Housekeeping."

Machado, who recently became a U.S. citizen, voiced the accusations of name-calling herself in a video released by the Clinton campaign following the debate.

She tweeted her thanks to Clinton after the forum, writing in Spanish, "Thanks Mrs. Hillary Clinton. Your respect for women and our differences makes you great. I'm with you."

I received my passport ! I'm ready to vote For my country for you @HillaryClinton for my daughter For women workers pic.twitter.com/U5lSwWxiHc -- Alicia Machado (@machadooficial) September 27, 2016

Machado also posted a selfie of her holding a U.S. passport on Twitter along with a message, "I received my passport ! I'm ready to vote For my country for you @HillaryClinton for my daughter For women workers."

Machado appeared in June at a Virginia news conference hosted by two immigrant advocacy groups to encourage Latino voters to support Clinton.

In July, the former beauty queen lent her name in support of housekeepers. She attended a Domestics Workers Assembly in South Florida, an event organized to push for a bill of rights for domestic workers in the Florida state legislature.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.


