During Sunday's presidential debate at Washington University in St. Louis, Donald Trump appeared to loom over Hillary Clinton while she addressed the moderators and audience.

And like the millions of people who watched the political slugfest, Clinton took notice.

Rick T. Wilking/Pool via AP Photo

In fact, during an appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, airing Friday, Clinton didn't mince words about her GOP rival's behavior, saying he "stalked" her on stage while she addressed the moderators and audience.

"Because of the revelation of the public video, and everything that came out on 'Access Hollywood,' you know, he was really all wrought up, and you could just sense how much anger he had," Clinton told DeGeneres, referring to the recently-leaked video of Trump making lewd comments about women with show's former host, Billy Bush. "And so, he was really trying to dominate and then literally stalk me around the stage."

"It was so odd, because I'd go to talk to somebody," she recalled, "and I would just feel this presence behind me, and you know, I thought, 'Whoa this is really weird.'"

Trump has denied "stalking" Clinton during the debate in an attempt to intimidate her.

At a campaign event the following day, he described the situation from his own perspective: "So, I'm standing at my podium by my chair. She walks across the room. She's standing in front of me, right next to me. And the next day I said what did the paper say? They said, 'he invaded her space.'"

"Believe me," he said, "The last space that I want to invade is her space. Believe me. I don't want to invade her space."

DeGeneres also asked Clinton about the latest allegations of Trump sexually assaulting women.

Clinton characterized the allegations as "distressing on many levels," but cautioned, "I don't want anybody to think that this election is over. Because it's been so unpredictable until now, that I'm not taking anything for granted."

Clinton also praised Michelle Obama's for her speech denouncing Trump's treatment of women.

"The speech that she gave, I think, put into words what so many people are feeling. And not just women and girls. Men and boys," Clinton said. "I think what Michelle Obama has so powerfully expressed, is: We are better than this."
