Supporters, protesters collide ahead of Donald Trump rally in Phoenix Arizona News Supporters, protesters collide ahead of Donald Trump rally in Phoenix When Donald Trump stopped here in the valley to hold a rally at the Veteran's Memorial Coliseum, supporters were met with dozens of protestors.

When Donald Trump stopped here in the valley to hold a rally at the Veteran's Memorial Coliseum, supporters were met with dozens of protestors.

Fox 10's Danielle Miller joins us live now with more.

Despite the triple digit temps, protestors stood outside for several hours before the event.

For the most part it was peaceful, but things occasionally got heated.

Dozens of protestors packed the corner of 19th Avenue and McDowell ahead of the Donald Trump rally.

Police also filled the streets to keep things safe.

Still people argued...going back and forth.

"I'm just not for racism and I believe his rhetoric is way too racist and I think moving the country forward in a manner that supports that is something I am not going to stand by and just watch," said Trump Protester Brenden Morley.

During today's protest, people held signs and chanted their anger towards the republican nominee.

"Trump is hateful, he is racist."

Other protestors said their reason for being there wasn't to scream and yell.

"Share a message of love, peace, acceptance. These are the things that we stand for," said Alli Booth.

"As you can see by my sign here, we're not espousing anything other than love and getting along and we just think that based on his own words, Donald Trump doesn't espouse these things," said Nicole Barber.

Some supporters who were attending the rally had to walk through the crowd of protesters.

"A little gittery, but I was ready for it and willing to take on the challenge," said Trump Supporter Rod Pitts.

"All of this ridiculous energy that's being wasted between democrats and republicans it's ridiculous. We should use that energy intelligently and fight ISIS," said Trump Supporter Scott Abrams.

Some supporters even chanted back...

..."Build that wall...build that wall baby, Mexico has to pay for it."

There were no reported injuries at the protest today and besides a few heated verbal arguments police didn't have to step in much.
