Trump gives Dr. Oz medical report, details not disclosed Politics Trump gives Dr. Oz medical report, details not disclosed Donald Trump on Wednesday handed over a one-page summary of his recent physical on a doctor's television show -- but the campaign won't reveal what was disclosed.

Donald Trump on Wednesday handed over a one-page summary of his recent physical on a doctor's television show -- but the campaign won't reveal what was disclosed.

Trump, ever the showman, appeared on "The Dr. Oz Show" in what was billed by the campaign as a discussion about his general well-being and his family's medical history. But reversing what aides had said earlier Wednesday, Trump handed host Mehmet Oz one-page of results from a physical conducted last week by his longtime physician, Dr. Harold Bornstein.

The show does not air until Thursday and the campaign declined to immediately disclose the results. But a release from the show said that "Dr. Oz took Mr. Trump though a full review of his systems" including his nervous system, cardiovascular health, prostate health and family medical history.

Both Trump and his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, have been under increased pressure to release detailed medical records, especially after Clinton was diagnosed with pneumonia and was captured on video stumbling getting into a waiting van at a 9/11 memorial ceremony Sunday.

Bornstein had previously written a note declaring the 70-year-old Trump, if elected, would be the healthiest president in history. He later said he had written the letter in five minutes as a limousine sent by the candidate idled outside.

The campaigns of both Trump and Clinton, 68, have said that their candidates would be releasing detailed medical records in the coming days.

The appearance with Oz came hours before Trump was to visit Flint, Michigan to condemn the government failure which led to that city's water crisis. The city's mayor made clear she did not want him to come.

Clinton remained in her suburban New York home Wednesday as she continues to recover from pneumonia. She is expected to return to the campaign trail on Thursday. Next week, she plans to meet with foreign leaders next week at the U.N. General Assembly in New York, her campaign said Wednesday.
