Maricopa County Board of Supervisors certify election Politics Maricopa County Board of Supervisors certify election It was a headache for many voters, but the results of Arizona's Presidential Preference Election last week was certified by the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors.

- It was a headache for many voters, but the results of Arizona's Presidential Preference Election last week was certified by the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors.

Attorneys for one of the Presidential candidates says they may sue over the results.

The presentation of results is usually a pretty formal event, but the board asked questions about what went wrong and heard from some voters upset with the way it all was handled. Also, in the crowd was an attorney for Bernie Sanders, who says they may sue over uncounted provisional ballots.

Anger continues to boil after the disaster at the polls.

"I would be generous if I thought they were just accidental, but even if I am generous and say these things weren't about voter suppression, I'm sorry I do believe they were, these are egregious mistakes," said Leonard Clark.

Maricopa County Recorder Helen Purcell officially presented the election results to be approved by the board and addressed what she calls election day myths.

"Vote centers ran out of ballots, that is also a myth, they did not run out of all the ballots, they could have gotten ballots from another Congressional district," said Purcell.

In the end, the Supervisors voted 4-1 to certify the results of the election. A lawyer for the Bernie Sanders Campaign says they are not ruling out possible legal action, as over 20,000 provisional ballots were ruled 'invalid.'

"There are a lot of unanswered questions, things that have to be fixed; we're not so concerned about apologies. We're concerned about making sure that people who were wrongly disenfranchised have their votes counted," said Chris Sautter.

The Sanders Campaign will have five days to file a suit after the Arizona Secretary of State certifies the election on April 4. The only supervisor voting against certifying the election was Democrat Steve Gallardo who said he couldn't in good conscience say it was a true and accurate count with so many provisional ballots thrown out.
