Momentum is gathering for California to pull out of the United States after Donald Trump's election as president. (Source: Wikimedia commons)

(RNN) - Less than 24 hours after Donald Trump became president-elect of the United States a movement to secede from the union is gathering momentum in California.

The hashtag #Calexit is among the top trends on Twitter, boosting a protest planned in Sacramento on Wednesday afternoon.

Supporters are asked to meet on the Capitol steps in a post on the movement's website YesCalifornia.org. The website claims that by 2019, Californians will have the chance to vote on a referendum to declare their independence from the U.S. There's also information on how to donate money and volunteer.

The separatists even have their own billionaire booster - Sherven Pishevar announced Tuesday night as a Trump win became more and more apparent that he would announce and fund a "legitimate campaign for California to become its own nation."

1/ If Trump wins I am announcing and funding a legitimate campaign for California to become its own nation. -- Shervin (@shervin) November 9, 2016

Pishevar told CNBC that he is serious about the proposal to form a nation he wants to call New California.

"It's the most patriotic thing I can do," he said. "The country is at serious crossroads."

Pishevar said California can re-enter the union once it becomes a nation, pointing out that the state by itself has the sixth-largest economy in the world, is the economic engine of the U.S. and provides much of the federal budget.

"California is more economically powerful than France and has a population larger than Poland," the website proclaims. "Point-by-point, California compares and competes with countries, not just the 49 states."

The movement compares itself to the "Brexit" vote that removed the United Kingdom from the European Union. The website contends that California is subsidizing other states in the U.S. and could better spend the money on itself.

Texas Republicans tried to force a vote on secession at the the Republican Party convention last summer, but didn't get enough votes in committee. The movement was small with only 22 of the 270 county commissions having passed independence resolutions, according to the Washington Post.

Protesters in Oakland, CA, damaged businesses and set garbage cans on fire to protest the election of Trump on Wednesday.

Students walked out of two high schools in Oakland in protest and at a school in Berkley, CA, where more than 1,000 students marched.

The protests spread to other parts of the country, including Chicago, Portland, OR, Nashville and New York.

Copyright 2016 Raycom News Network. All rights reserved.
