North Texas Muslims concerned after post-election intimidation News North Texas Muslims concerned after post-election intimidation The Center for American Islamic Relations in Dallas is feeling concerned after a threat towards it and other members of the Muslim community they say happened after Donald Trump was elected president.

The Center for American Islamic Relations in Dallas is feeling concerned after a threat towards it and other members of the Muslim community they say happened after Donald Trump was elected president.

Last Friday there was an incident involving people outside the office taunting staffers while they were working inside.

"People on motorcycles and pickup trucks wearing mask and waving flags and flicking off our building and shouting expletives at our location," said Alia Salem, Executive Director of CAIR DFW. "It's just an unnerving situation."

Salem says the group also displayed the logo for "3 percenters" -- a self-described patriot movement which pledges resistance against any restriction of the U.S. constitution.

Just one day after reporting the incident to Dallas police, members of the Muslim community were targeted again at a community coffee shop in Dallas.

Pastor Mike Baughman is the community curator at union coffee -- a non-profit community space sponsored by the United Methodist Church. Saturday afternoon, CAIR DFW was holding a community meeting on race relations when a barista at the coffee shop got a startling phone call.

"They asked the staff there if this is where the terrorists are meeting," Salem said.

About 20 Muslim Americans were inside at the time of the call. The barista hung up, called 911, and then called Pastor Baughman who took immediate action.

"Got the word out to a couple of people in our congregation and asked them if they would come out and provide hospitality to people at the event so that they would know they're welcomed here and we want them here," said Rev. Michael Baughman

Members of the church sat with the Muslim Americans until the event was over. It was a kind gesture that Salem will never forget.

Salem said private security did escort Muslim Americans to their cars after the event was over. They were worried the person who called the coffee house may show up in person since the event information was posted on CAIR's website.

Union Coffee said despite the scare, they would welcome CAIR or other community groups to their building.
