ABC FOX Montana has big coverage plans for this Election Day, Tuesday November 8th

It all starts bright and early on Wake Up Montana bright at 5 a.m.

Will voters move to Canada after the results? How much does your vote cost? And what's the likely financial outcome for a Trump and Clinton administration?

Those are questions our statewide team of morning reporters will be answering for viewers to help Montanans get your Election Day started.

Then... look for LIVE broadcast cut-ins from around the state starting mid-afternoon as we get to the polls too, to see how voter turnout is going and how voters are reacting to their ballots.

Our LIVE coverage will start on both ABC Montana and FOX Montana at around 5:00 p.m. Both networks will be bringing you national coverage preempting our 5:30 p.m. ABC Local newscast. But don't worry, because our news team will still bring you LIVE updates from your state and local elections.

Here's how...

Our Angela Marshall will be giving LIVE updates from where Congressman Ryan Zinke's campaign in Whitefish is, while Alyssa Flores will be LIVE with the Denise Juneau camp in Missoula.

In Bozeman, Greg LaMotte will be giving LIVE updates with Greg Gianforte and Amanda Roley will be LIVE in Helena where Governor Steve Bullock will be on Election night.

Then starting at 9 p.m. Becky Hilliard will be anchoring our complete statewide coverage as numbers continue to roll in from polls across the state. We will go straight from 9 until 10:35 p.m. on ABC and FOX in Missoula, Kalispell, Butte, Bozeman, Helena and Great Falls and on KULR-8, NBC in Billings.

We will also have an interactive "Initiatives Desk" to break down the results of our Montana ballot initiatives and the impact of those results.

Along with all of that... our team of reporters will be stationed at county elections offices around the state to take a closer look at local races, bonds and levies. We will have those updates on air and online as well as on Facebook and Twitter.

Follow us on Facebook at ABC FOX MT and Twitter by using the hashtag #ElexHQ for a complete and comprehensive statewide look at Election Day from around the state of Montana.
