Crowds flock to Clinton rally at Independence Hall Local News Crowds flock to Clinton rally at Independence Hall On this Election Eve, Philadelphia Hillary Clinton hosted her final rally in Philadelphia. It's her last chance to get voters to the polls and she won't be alone to make that final pitch.

- On this Election Eve, Philadelphia Hillary Clinton hosted her final rally in Philadelphia. It's her last chance to get voters to the polls and she won't be alone to make that final pitch.

Line for HillaryClinton rally stretches to 11th&Kimball near WashingtonAve in SouthPhilly @FOX29philly Rally started 730 at IndependenceMall pic.twitter.com/vSTz2LR6pc -- Shawnette Wilson (@SWilsonFOX29) November 8, 2016

President Barack Obama, Michelle Obama, Bill and Chelsea Clinton, Bruce Springsteen and Jon Bon Jovi joined Hillary Clinton at the "Get Out the Vote" rally.

The rally blocked off several streets surrounding Independence Mall and caused bumper to bumper traffic on streets that remained open. A high police presence on every corner.

"We've given up. We're going to go home and watch it on TV," said Arcana Albright and her family. They set out this evening to try and get to Independence Mall.



"We ran over there about 20 blocks from home. We got to Fourth and Lombard and saw a giant line," said Albright. They found a line that stretched all the way from Fifth and Chestnut to 11th and Kimball in South Philly.



"We went from we'll go to the event to the event is the line," said Albright.



Others vowed to wait it out calling the night an historic one.



"I just want to see how far we get. I'm pretty sure we're not going to get in," said Mekela Lewis. Her friend Christian Johnson said he wouldn't miss it for anything.



"This is history. I never saw Obama or Hillary," he said.



"We're happy about the turn out. That was the main reason why we wanted to come out," said Filippo Bergami.



SkyFOX flew over the crowd waiting to get in and others drawn to the area just to see what was going on.

We went to the end of the line to find one of the last people hoping to get to the rally despite being so far away as it started.



"I'm just like in it for the ride. I'm fascinated that there are blocks and blocks of people," said Dahlia Elzein.

In the final 48 hours, Clinton has made stops in North Carolina, Michigan, New Hampshire, Ohio. Monday night was her third Pennsylvania appearance. Her opponent, Donald Trump was in New Hampshire tonight for a rally.
