FW congresswoman reportedly backs out of supporting Trump News FW congresswoman reportedly backs out of supporting Trump There are questions about whether a Fort Worth congresswoman who had reportedly said Donald Trump should withdraw from the presidential race has changed her mind.

There are questions about whether a Fort Worth congresswoman who had reportedly said Donald Trump should withdraw from the presidential race has changed her mind.

During Trump's Tuesday fundraiser in Dallas, Lt. Governor Dan Patrick said the newspapers have it wrong after the Texas Tribune reported Congresswoman Kay Granger said she couldn't support Trump any longer.

The Texas Tribune reported Granger told a reporter she couldn't stay with Trump after the eleven-year-old video surfaced of him in lewd talk about women

Reporter Abby Livingston tweeted Granger's statement she gave her: "We have heard rumors about the insensitive and vulgar things Mr. Trump says about women. But watching that video is disgusting. Mr. Trump should remove himself from consideration as Commander in Chief

"The tape of Donald Trump making his incendiary comments about assaulting women came out on Friday. Many Republicans, including Granger, were off him by Saturday," said SMU Political Science Professor Cal Jillson.

And according to the Texas Tribune and Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Granger is among a group calling for Trump to drop out of the race.

"He's the Republican candidate, and he's gonna be until Election Day," said Jillson. "So a lot of them, maybe Kay, recalculated whether they were going to renew their support

During the Tuesday fundraiser, Patrick called congressmen to stand on stage behind Trump. As he called out the names, he read from a sheet of paper handed to him by the Trump Campaign.

"And Representative Kay Granger wanted to be sure you got the message - she could not be here, but the newspapers have it wrong. She is in total support of Donald Trump," Patrick told the crowd.

Congressman Pete Sessions, a big Trump backer, says he has not spoken with Granger

"I was told that she had put a release out indicating that she was withdrawing that support, but I don't know that," he said. "It's in our best interest to not only go and sell what we will do in congress but that we want to work with a person that will work with us. And I will tell you Donald Trump has indicated he will work with congress."

"But the fact that Kay is nowhere to be found I think speaks volume," Jillson added.

FOX 4 made multiple calls to the congresswoman to her Fort Worth and D.C. for comment but have yet to get a response.
