- There's already at least one protest planned for Donald Trump's visit to Dallas on Thursday.

Trump was last in town in September for a huge rally at the American Airlines Center.

This time around, the presumptive republican nominee is only attending a private fundraiser. His campaign is trying to find a location for a public rally but appears to be having trouble doing so.

Activists met Tuesday night to plan their protest. It was led by attorney Domingo Garcia. He says he does not want to be near Trump supporters and will host his protest at Highland Park Village because he 'wants to add a little color to the one percent's territory.'

Garcia also says he selected Highland Park Village because it's owned by Ray Washburne, who is also Vice Chairman of the Trump Victory Committee and is hosting a fundraiser.

Garcia says their plan is to gather around 5 p.m. Thursday and march from the shopping center to Washburne's home, about a 30 minute walk. The group is aware that there could be action to remove them from the village property, but Garcia says they have the right to assemble and protest peacefully.

"Letting the one percent know that we need to worry about the other 99 percent," said Garcia. "That means issues like income inequality, pay raises, immigration reform. Those are important to most Americans."

Garcia was behind the other Trump protest when he came to Dallas in September. That protest involved thousands of people.

The group says they do not want to incite violence, like what was seen at Trump protests in other cities.

They've asked protesters to wear white shirts to promote peace and carry American flags.

Garcia says he has talked to police and several law enforcement officials who have volunteered to work the protest.

Dallas Police Chief David Brown released this statement: "The police department is very aware of rallies that have occurred in other cities and the violence between demonstrators and supporters... There will be no tolerance for individuals who engage in criminal attacks or attempts to incite violence or civil disorder."

FOX 4 contacted Ray Washburne, who did not want to comment.

The cities of Irving and Grand Prairie have denied hosting Trump's rally for logistical reasons.
