Representatives website hacked after election hearing Arizona News Representatives website hacked after election hearing Many people upset with lawmakers over the way last Tuesday's election was handled turned their anger towards Helen Purcell and Secretary of State Michele Reagan. But they weren't the only elected officials to feel the voters angst.

- Many people upset with lawmakers over the way last Tuesday's election was handled turned their anger towards Helen Purcell and Secretary of State Michele Reagan. But they weren't the only elected officials to feel the voters angst.

The hearing held by the legislature saw voter after voter venting at the podium.

"I want a federal investigation, and a non-partisan recount of this vote, we need another day of voting, we need to count all provisional ballots," said one speaker.

The man charged with keeping speakers in line was Representative J.D. Mesnard. Tuesday morning he found his campaign website hacked, with mobile users being sent to a game app, and desktop computers being sent to a hardcore pornography site.

"Given the activities and the drama of the last 24 hours, it certainly made me wonder if somebody who was upset with yesterday decided to take it out on me in a way by hacking into my website," said Rep. J.D. Mesnard.

Many had already attacked his voicemail and e-mail inboxes. Others insulted him on Facebook with comments like "You arrogant, corrupt piece of crap, your attempt to undermine democracy will get you kicked out of office and into jail."

"It's ironic because for the most part I'm in agreement with their frustration, but somehow it transferred onto me because I was trying to keep order in the hearing, and keeping it from getting too out of control, and it had already gotten pretty out of control," said Mesnard.

By the afternoon, his website was restored. Mensard says he's disappointed that his attempt to help voters resulted in petty revenge.

"I'm here doing a job and trying to find solutions, I think we're really on the same team, doing things like this makes it more difficult, it doesn't inspire us to be helpful at a time when we need to be," he said.

Meznard says he understands first hand what other voters were going through. He had to travel to 3 different polling locations to find the shortest line. He hopes he can still work with voters to resolve election problems.


