Claims of wide-scale voter fraud have been advanced for years by Republicans, though virtually no evidence of such improprieties has been discovered -- especially on the scale of "millions" that Mr. Trump claimed.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Late on Sunday, again without providing evidence, he referred in a Twitter post to "serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California."

A day earlier, Mr. Trump's transition team ridiculed the idea that recounts were needed. "This is a scam by the Green Party for an election that has already been conceded," it said in a statement, "and the results of this election should be respected instead of being challenged and abused."

That message runs counter to the one Mr. Trump sent on Sunday with his fraud claims -- if millions of people voted illegally, presumably officials across the country would want to pursue large-scale ballot recounts and fraud investigations.

But the Twitter posts could energize some of his supporters, who have claimed online that Mrs. Clinton's two million-vote lead in the popular vote has been faked. Mr. Trump at times promoted other conspiracy theories during the campaign, including claiming that Senator Ted Cruz's father was somehow tied to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

Many of Mrs. Clinton's supporters have been galvanized by the notion that vote recounts in the three states -- where Mr. Trump leads by a combined total of about 100,000 votes -- could somehow overturn Mr. Trump's commanding Electoral College victory. By announcing, three weeks after Mrs. Clinton conceded, that it would participate in the Wisconsin recount, her team has helped reignite the contentious atmosphere of the campaign, of which Mr. Trump's Twitter barrages were a fixture. (By all accounts, Mr. Trump types out many, though not all, of his own Twitter posts.)

After spending almost five days in Palm Beach, Fla., where he celebrated Thanksgiving at his Mar-a-Lago resort, Mr. Trump made no public statements on Sunday other than those via Twitter. He returned in the afternoon to Trump Tower in Manhattan.

Through the day, Mr. Trump appeared fixated on the recount and his electoral performance. In a series of midafternoon Twitter posts, not long before he boarded his flight, Mr. Trump boasted that he could have easily won the "so-called popular vote" if he had campaigned only in "3 or 4" states, presumably populous ones.

"I would have won even more easily and convincingly (but smaller states are forgotten)!" he wrote.

Photo

The afternoon messages followed a string of early-morning Twitter posts in which Mr. Trump railed against the recount efforts. In an initial post at 7:19, he wrote: "Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the victory speech and after the results were in. Nothing will change."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He went on to quote a comment by Mrs. Clinton during one of their debates, in which she said she was horrified by Mr. Trump's refusal to say that he would accept the outcome of the election. And he noted that in her concession speech, she had urged people to respect the vote results.

"'We have to accept the results and look to the future, Donald Trump is going to be our President,'" Mr. Trump wrote, quoting Mrs. Clinton.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

One person who spoke with Mr. Trump over the holiday weekend said the president-elect had appeared to be preoccupied by suggestions that a recount might be started, even as his aides played down any concerns. Another friend said Mr. Trump felt crossed by Mrs. Clinton, who he believed had conceded the race and accepted the results.

In a post on Medium, Marc Elias, the Clinton team's general counsel, said the campaign would participate in Ms. Stein's recount effort with little expectation that it would change the result, partly out of a sense of duty to the millions who voted for Mrs. Clinton.

"We do so fully aware that the number of votes separating Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in the closest of these states -- Michigan -- well exceeds the largest margin ever overcome in a recount," Mr. Elias said, noting that Clinton campaign officials had found no "actionable evidence" of hacking or attempts to tamper with the vote.

Late Sunday night, Mr. Elias responded on Twitter to Mr. Trump's allegations, writing, "We are getting attacked for participating in a recount that we didn't ask for by the man who won election but thinks there was massive fraud."

In Wisconsin, Mr. Trump leads by 22,177 votes. In Michigan, he has a lead of 10,704 votes, and in Pennsylvania, his advantage is 70,638 votes.

Mr. Trump's aides echoed his concerns about the recount effort in appearances on Sunday morning television news programs. Ms. Conway, who was his campaign manager, said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that Mrs. Clinton and her campaign advisers would have to decide "whether they're going to be a bunch of crybabies."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As for the debate over Mr. Romney, Ms. Conway, echoing comments she posted last week on Twitter, made clear that she opposed choosing Mr. Romney as secretary of state.

"There was the 'Never Trump' movement, and then there was Gov. Mitt Romney," she said on ABC. During the primaries, Mr. Romney called Mr. Trump a "fraud" and a "phony."

Ms. Conway said it was important for Mr. Trump to seek to unify the Republican Party by making gestures to those who opposed his candidacy. But, she added, "I don't think the cost of party unity has to be the secretary of state position."

Moments after appearing on the show, Ms. Conway, who is under consideration to be Mr. Trump's press secretary, wrote on Twitter that she had told Mr. Trump her opinion privately, "and I'll respect his decision."

On "Meet the Press," she said people felt "betrayed" by the idea that Mr. Romney could get a top cabinet job. "I'm not campaigning against anyone," she said. "I'm just a concerned citizen."

"We don't even know if he voted for Donald Trump," she added.
