Photo

Donald J. Trump, fresh off winning five primary contests, doubled down on his claim that Hillary Clinton is playing the "woman's card" on Wednesday, and insisted that she would have few votes if she were a man.

Mr. Trump, the leading Republican presidential candidate, raised eyebrows -- and even appeared to receive an eye roll, from the wife of Gov. Chris Christie, one of his top supporters -- when he said in a postelection news conference that Mrs. Clinton was leading in the Democratic race because of her gender.

"If Hillary Clinton were a man, I don't think she would get 5 percent of the vote," Mr. Trump said.

Despite suggestions that the remark is sexist, and it drew a quick response from Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Trump defended it during a around of television interviews on Wednesday and said that he would continue to call her out if he thought she was playing the gender card.

"She is a woman, she is playing the woman card left and right," Mr. Trump said on CNN. "Frankly, if she didn't, she would do very poorly. If she were a man and she was the way she is, she would get virtually no votes."

Mr. Trump seemed to relish injecting gender politics into the race as he looks ahead to a potential general election matchup with Mrs. Clinton. In an interview with ABC's "Good Morning America," he claimed that women do not like Mrs. Clinton and that he has every right to attack her if she plays up the fact that she would be the first female United States president.

Mrs. Clinton addressed Mr. Trump's new line of attack during her victory speech on Tuesday night, telling voters to "deal me in" when it comes to Mr. Trump's suggestions that he is trying to capitalize on her gender and argued that she would be the best candidate to defend women's rights on health and in the workplace.

In an interview with MSNBC, Mr. Trump said that he found the tone of Mrs. Clinton's response to be irritating.

"I haven't quite recovered, it's early in the morning, from her shouting that message," Mr. Trump said. "I know a lot of people would say you can't say that about a woman because, of course, a woman doesn't shout."

He added, "We're going to do very well with Hillary and with woman and as soon as we start our process against her."
