It is not clear that Mrs. Palin's blessing will have a major impact on Mr. Trump's long-term prospects. But in Iowa, where Mrs. Palin spent years developing a network of supporters, it could be helpful. Mr. Trump has faced questions about whether his campaign's organizing muscle can draw the voters to match his poll numbers come caucus night.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"Over the years Palin has actually cultivated a number of relationships in Iowa," said Craig Robinson, the former political director of the Republican Party of Iowa and publisher of the website The Iowa Republican. "There are the Tea Party activists who still think she's great and a breath of fresh air, but she also did a good job of courting Republican donors in the state," he added.

Other conservatives said that Mrs. Palin serves as a particularly effective shield against Mr. Cruz, who has assiduously courted Iowa's evangelical voters.

"Palin's brand among evangelicals is as gold as the faucets in Trump Tower," said Ralph Reed, the chairman of the Faith and Freedom Coalition.

The Most Mystifying Lines of Sarah Palin's Endorsement Speech Here's our attempt to translate 10 lines from Mrs. Palin's endorsement speech of Donald J. Trump.

"Endorsements alone don't guarantee victory, but Palin's embrace of Trump may turn the fight over the evangelical vote into a war for the soul of the party," he said.

Mrs. Palin could amplify the news media-circus aspects of Mr. Trump's candidacy: She too is a reality television star accustomed to playing to the cameras and often accused of emphasizing flash over substance.

And while Mr. Trump has already shown the ability to garner wall-to-wall cable-news coverage, Mrs. Palin's involvement in his campaign could help him deprive Mr. Cruz of attention in the homestretch to the caucuses.

As rumors circulated that the endorsement was about to happen, Mr. Cruz offered praise for his former political ally after an aide to the senator mocked the pending endorsement earlier Tuesday. "I love Sarah Palin," the senator told reporters in New Hampshire. "Sarah Palin is fantastic. Without her friendship and support, I wouldn't be in the Senate today. So regardless of what Sarah decides to do in 2016, I will always remain a big, big fan of Sarah Palin."

As word of Mrs. Palin's endorsement trickled through the Hansen Agriculture Student Learning Center at Iowa State University, the reaction from supporters of Mr. Trump who braved snow and frigid temperatures to see the candidate was mixed. Backers of Mr. Trump filled a warehouse-style building with a dirt floor that is sometimes used for tractor shows, but most said that it was the candidate that they cared about, not his new endorsement.

"I'm not here to see her," said Rich Hoffmann, 41, of Ankeny. "Some people it will matter to, but it doesn't to me."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mrs. Palin and Mr. Trump are not strangers. The two shared pizza along with Mr. Trump's wife, Melania, in May 2011, when Mrs. Palin was considering a presidential run of her own and was making a bus tour around the country. (Mr. Trump was mocked at the time for using a knife and fork on his slice.)

They also share a trusted operative: Mr. Trump's national political director, Michael Glassner, was chief of staff to Mrs. Palin's political action committee.

And like Mr. Trump, Mrs. Palin has maverick tendencies. The mantra of her final weeks of the 2008 campaign was "going rogue," as she defied instructions from aides to Senator John McCain of Arizona, the party's presidential nominee.

Little-known before Mr. McCain picked her as his running mate, Mrs. Palin ultimately eclipsed him in popularity and polls show her maintaining strong support among Republicans. She has endured as a coveted endorser with an impressive fund-raising list. After the loss in 2008, she declined to finish her term in Alaska, and went on to become a television star and a Fox News commentator.

Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The endorsement of Mr. Trump puts Mrs. Palin back in the center of the media maelstrom, and allows her to rehabilitate her political image, which had diminished in the last year as her contract with Fox News ended.

Mrs. Palin endorsed several of Mr. Trump's Republican rivals in their statewide races, including Mr. Cruz during his Senate bid in Texas and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky. Mr. Cruz, after his 2012 primary victory over the incumbent lieutenant governor, David Dewhurst, said he would not have made it to the Senate without Mrs. Palin's backing.

For Mr. Trump, who is trying to accrue other endorsements in the coming weeks, the backing of high-profile Republicans could dent the outsider-to-politics aura that has been elemental to his success in the polls before the voting has begun. But the support of Mrs. Palin, a darling of the Tea Party insurgency, could help inoculate him from such attacks.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The endorsement comes as Mr. Cruz is facing increasing scrutiny in Iowa for his opposition to federal ethanol mandates, highlighted by the criticism from Governor Branstad, whose son works for a group promoting ethanol, the corn-based fuel that is a crucial Iowa industry.

"Ted Cruz is ahead right now. What we're trying to do is educate the people in the state of Iowa," Mr. Branstad told reporters at the Renewable Fuels Summit in Altoona. "He is the biggest opponent of renewable fuels. He actually introduced a bill in 2013 to immediately eliminate the Renewable Fuel Standard."

"He's heavily financed by Big Oil," the governor added. "I think it would be a big mistake for Iowa to support him."

The remark was highly unusual for Mr. Branstad, an establishment Republican who nonetheless has stayed out of his party's presidential primaries in the past.
