"It's your governor's fault," Mr. Trump told thousands of booing supporters. "We have to get your governor and get going. She's got to do a better job, O.K.? Your governor has got to do a better job."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The swipes at Ms. Martinez, delivered in two separate instances during his speech, seemed designed to send a message: If the presumptive Republican nominee is attacked, critics can expect Mr. Trump to hit them back far harder.

The decision to go after Ms. Martinez in her own state is not dissimilar to the time Mr. Trump ridiculed Senator Bernie Sanders during a stop in Burlington, Vt., the hometown of Mr. Sanders.

Ms. Martinez has been critical of Mr. Trump. She has declined to endorse him, expressed concerns about him at closed-door party gatherings and did not appear at his rally here because, she told reporters, she was "really busy."

But Mr. Trump's decision to use Ms. Martinez, the first Hispanic woman governor in the country's history, for purposes of firing a warning shot at his critics confounded Republicans and revived questions Wednesday about whether he has a genuine appetite to unify the party.

"Politics is about winning, and after the primaries are over, what you do is bring anyone who was not with you on board," said Luis Fortuno, a Republican and former governor of Puerto Rico. "To do the opposite doesn't bode well for any candidate."

Photo

Mr. Trump's broadside led to a round of phone calls and text messages among Republican governors. A spokesman for the governors' association, Jon Thompson, issued a statement that avoided criticizing Mr. Trump but praised Ms. Martinez for instituting "conservative reforms in a blue state."

Even as he speaks of unity, Mr. Trump, it seems, cannot seem to contain his freewheeling, sometimes offensive riffs, which some of his supporters relish but which put off others.

At a rally in Anaheim, Calif., on Wednesday, Mr. Trump knocked both Mitt Romney, the party's 2012 nominee, and Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida who unsuccessfully ran against Mr. Trump for the Republican nomination, but remains popular with the party's establishment.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

He called Mr. Romney "a choker," and mocked his gait, saying "he walks like a penguin onto the stage. Like a penguin!" And to boos, he complained that Mr. Bush has yet to endorse him. "He will get a burst of energy and he will do it, believe me," Mr. Trump said, alluding to a nickname -- "Low-Energy Jeb" -- he had given Mr. Bush when the two were rivals.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Speaking for more than an hour Tuesday night here, Mr. Trump also took aim at Hillary Clinton and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. He called Ms. Warren "Pocahontas," a derogatory nickname because of her unsubstantiated claims during her 2012 Senate run that she has Native-American ancestry.

If Mr. Trump was echoing the views of many in his own party, he was also demonstrating why polls show him as so unpopular among women.

Just 21 percent of female voters have a favorable opinion of Mr. Trump, and 60 percent view him unfavorably, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. Among Hispanic women, Mr. Trump fares even worse, with 80 percent viewing him unfavorably and just 18 percent viewing him favorably, according to a recent Fox News poll of Hispanic registered voters, with slightly different question wording.

If his image does not improve among Latinas, he will find it difficult to carry swing states with larger Hispanic populations such as Florida and Colorado, let alone more Democratic-leaning states such as New Mexico. Mr. Trump says he expects to do well with Hispanics, but has upset many of them with his promise to build a wall along the United States-Mexico border, as well as his comments that some Mexicans are criminals and rapists.

Ms. Martinez, who is in her second term, is popular among Republicans here and has been mentioned as a potential vice-presidential pick -- though not necessarily by Mr. Trump's team. But that seems unlikely now.

"The governor will not be bullied into supporting a candidate until she is convinced that candidate will fight for New Mexicans," said Mike Lonergan, Ms. Martinez's press secretary. "Governor Martinez doesn't care about what Donald Trump says about her."

But Democrats were delighted about it, and Mrs. Clinton seized on Mr. Trump's criticism of Ms. Martinez.

"Last night, he insulted the Republican Governor Martinez of New Mexico, just gratuitously," Mrs. Clinton said at California rally on Wednesday. "I don't know, he seems to have something about women."
