"Trump has to worry about the consistent late-voter rejection of his candidacy," said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and Republican presidential candidate.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump's losses to Mr. Cruz in Kansas and Maine on Saturday, coupled with closer-than-expected victories in Louisiana and Kentucky, have heightened the prospects for a two-man race, though many Republican leaders eye Mr. Cruz warily.

As his rivals have despaired over the race's vulgar turn, Mr. Trump struck a subdued tone, by his standards, as returns came in late Saturday night. He aborted his first attempt to take the stage and left the room after asking reporters if the race in Kentucky had been called.

Photo

When he finally did speak, some of his usual bombast was missing, even as he insisted that it was time for Senator Marco Rubio to quit the race and that Mr. Cruz cannot win more moderate northeastern or coastal states.

"Donald Trump was uncharacteristically low energy," Mitt Romney, the Republican nominee in 2012, said in an interview Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press," taunting Mr. Trump with the insult Mr. Trump had employed against Jeb Bush. Yet despite the renewed optimism of his opponents, the path to deny Mr. Trump the nomination remains narrow and arduous.

Mr. Cruz's emergence as the most credible alternative to Mr. Trump has proved both a boost and a complication for those seeking to derail the New Yorker. Mr. Cruz has tried to undercut calls for a contested convention to deny Mr. Trump the nomination, which Mr. Cruz says would yield a "manifest revolt" among voters. But Mr. Cruz has done little so far to threaten Mr. Trump's lead in the delegate race.

Much of Mr. Cruz's late-breaking support on Saturday seemed to come at the expense of Mr. Rubio, not Mr. Trump. And the Cruz campaign's message of ideological purity and religious faith is a less natural fit for many of the delegate-rich Midwestern and coastal states that remain on the map.

"Saturday proved that Trump can be contained and even beaten," said Scott Jennings, a longtime Republican strategist, who looked ahead to this summer's Republican convention in Cleveland. "The question is whether the field is going to allow for it moving forward. The most likely scenarios remain that Trump gets enough before Cleveland, or nobody does. The latter moved a little closer to realistic Saturday."

Mr. Rubio's path is much less certain, despite his lopsided victory in Puerto Rico on Sunday. Even his supporters said that the results on Saturday seriously undercut the premise of his bid: that he is the only candidate who can unify the Republican Party and defeat Mr. Trump.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"Look, I'm supportive of Marco; I'm very hopeful," said Mel Martinez, the former senator from Florida, who had supported Mr. Bush. "But it's a great concern that time has kind of caught up with this whole thing."

The Stop Trump forces are beginning to pour money into television ads, with a particular focus on the big states voting on March 15. Four different groups have reserved at least $10 million in airtime in Florida so far, according to trackers of media spending. That number is expected to grow, but television stations in Florida are already awash in such ads.

Two from the American Future Fund, which has spent $2 million so far in Florida and Illinois, show decorated veterans assailing Mr. Trump as a poseur on military matters. Michael Waltz, a retired Special Forces colonel, blisteringly calls Mr. Trump a draft dodger and, effectively, a coward. "Donald Trump hasn't served this country a day in his life," he says. "Don't let Trump fool you."

And a former prisoner of war in Vietnam, Tom Hanton, bluntly questions Mr. Trump's toughness: "Trump would not have survived the P.O.W. experience. He would have been probably the first one to fold."

Separately, Club for Growth Action, an arm of the anti-tax group that was the first to run ads in Iowa against Mr. Trump, has placed $2 million in commercials attacking him in Illinois on top of $1 million in Florida.

A third group, Our Principles PAC, which was created to defeat Mr. Trump, has reserved $3.5 million in Illinois and Florida and is also sending direct mail to voters' homes in Florida. A group supporting Mr. Rubio, Conservative Solutions, is spending several million dollars in Florida as well.

The deluge of negative messages from a patchwork of groups -- highlighting claims by angry customers of Mr. Trump's defunct educational company and his history of shape-shifting positions -- already appears to have hurt Mr. Trump's cause.

In conversations with some of his allies, who insisted on anonymity to relay those private talks, Trump campaign aides have expressed concern about the money being spent against him on television. The Trump campaign has no pollster, so it is governed by public polling and what the candidate himself observes while watching cable news.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This off-the-cuff approach, and a string of self-inflicted wounds -- refusing to clearly and immediately reject the support of the white supremacist David Duke, boasting about his sexual endowment on the debate stage and withdrawing from the Conservative Political Action Committee's conference over the weekend -- have fueled days of unfavorable coverage of Mr. Trump's candidacy.

"Trump has total disdain for the professional political class," said Scott Reed, a veteran Republican strategist. "He thinks they're all about making money. Pollsters are hacks. Organization doesn't matter. Their idea of a political organization is taking phone calls from some elected officials who wanted to endorse and making it work in the schedule. And that'll catch up with you eventually."

Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Still, members of the Republican establishment have been left to grapple with what was once unthinkable: rallying around Mr. Cruz, a senator who built his reputation bashing them.

"Some hope with Ted, no hope with Donald," Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said on "Meet the Press," summarizing the party's dim view of its remaining options. Neither, he suggested, would be likely to expand the Republican tent: "We're in a demographic death spiral."

Less than two weeks ago, Mr. Graham joked about murdering Mr. Cruz on the Senate floor.

And yet, Mr. Graham said, he received a phone call from Mr. Cruz after Super Tuesday -- part of efforts by the Cruz campaign to reach out, discreetly, to donors and party officials who might be interested in rallying around him.

With Mr. Rubio faltering badly across the board on Saturday, Mr. Cruz is moving to compete aggressively in Florida. He has also weighed the merits of a significant push in Ohio, the home state of Gov. John Kasich.

Both states are winner-take-all, and the Cruz campaign insists it would only dedicate substantial resources if it thought it could win outright. But the effort is risky: It could boost Mr. Trump, if Mr. Cruz diminishes his non-Trump rivals without a victory.

The Cruz campaign says it can reach the requisite delegate threshold of 1,237 without winning Florida or Ohio, thanks to its superior organization in later-voting states, many of which are closed to non-Republicans.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But several party strategists have disputed this math, even if the contests on March 15 force some of Mr. Cruz's competitors from the race.

A moment of reckoning for Mr. Rubio will come Tuesday in Michigan, a state that has concentrations of the kinds of voters he performs well with: professional, younger, highly educated and upper-income. But a poll released on Sunday by NBC News and The Wall Street Journal showed Mr. Rubio trailing Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump received 41 percent, followed by Mr. Cruz at 22 percent, Mr. Rubio at 17 percent and Mr. Kasich at 13 percent.

Despite this, some Michigan Republicans say that Mr. Kasich may emerge as the state's establishment choice. And in a race that has often felt like a reality television show, Mr. Kasich secured an apt endorsement on Sunday: that of Arnold Schwarzenegger, who will replace Mr. Trump as the host of "The Celebrity Apprentice."
