Mr. Dickerson asked Mr. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, if a Muslim judge would be similarly biased because of Mr. Trump's call for a ban on Muslim immigrants. "It's possible, yes," Mr. Trump said. "Yeah. That would be possible. Absolutely."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When Mr. Dickerson said there was a tradition in the United States, a nation of immigrants, against judging people based on heritage, Mr. Trump replied, "I'm not talking about tradition, I'm talking about common sense, O.K.?"

In his interview with Mr. Dickerson, and in a separate discussion with Jake Tapper on CNN's "State of the Union," Mr. Trump refused to retreat from his comments on Judge Curiel's background.

Video

"He is a member of a club or society, very strongly pro-Mexican, which is all fine," Mr. Trump said. "But I say he's got bias. I want to build a wall. I'm going to build a wall. I'm doing very well with the Latinos, with the Hispanics, with the Mexicans, I'm doing very well with them, in my opinion."

Judge Curiel, 62, was born in East Chicago, Ind., to parents who had emigrated from Mexico. He graduated from Indiana University's law school and worked as an assistant United States attorney in the Southern District of California before being appointed in 2007 to the bench in San Diego by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican. President Obama nominated Judge Curiel to the federal bench in late 2011, and he was confirmed by the Senate in 2012.

Mr. Trump's broadside against Judge Curiel was one of the most overtly racial remarks he had made in the presidential race, and it exacerbated the tension between some Republicans and their nominee. White, older, working-class voters make up a large portion of the party's base, and Republicans need to keep the presidential campaign close in order to hold their majority in the Senate. But Mr. Trump's remarks have offended wide blocs of voters to whom the party must appeal amid national demographic shifts.

And the critiques have raised concerns about how, as president, Mr. Trump would handle the separation of powers between the executive and judicial branches of government. That issue is sacred to conservatives, who have railed against what they see as an abuse of power by Mr. Obama.

Republicans have tried to mitigate the potential damage of Mr. Trump's language by rejecting it in one moment, but embracing his candidacy in the next.

On NBC's "Meet the Press," Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, did not directly answer a question about whether Mr. Trump's remark had been racist, but said he completely disagreed with it. "All of us came here from somewhere else," Mr. McConnell said, referring to Judge Curiel's heritage. "That's an important part of what makes America work."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, a Republican whose name had been floated as a potential vice-presidential nominee, said on ABC's "This Week" of Mr. Trump's behavior, "I think that he's going to have to change." And Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, who has been among Mr. Trump's most vocal supporters, called the Curiel remarks "inexcusable" on "Fox News Sunday."

"This is one of the worst mistakes Trump has made," said Mr. Gingrich, who has also been mentioned as a potential vice-presidential candidate.

But none of the three men rejected Mr. Trump's candidacy outright. Mr. Gingrich praised Mr. Trump moments later as a quick learner. Mr. Corker suggested that Mr. Trump "has an opportunity to really change the trajectory of our country, and it's my sense that he will take advantage of that."

Those defenses are becoming more strained as Mr. Trump has reversed his suggestions that he knows he must grow into the role of nominee. And Republicans were mostly silent after Hillary Clinton assailed Mr. Trump in a speech on Thursday about the stakes of the election. Mr. Trump led his defense on Twitter and at a rally, but his campaign and its surrogates had no uniform response.

In the weeks since he vanquished his remaining two primary opponents, Mr. Trump has repeatedly turned his campaign's focus inward -- toward his businesses, the Trump University lawsuit, his fights with other Republicans -- and obscured the hopes Republicans had of keeping a spotlight on Mrs. Clinton and her email controversy, or on a jobs report suggesting a slowdown in job creation.

Mr. McConnell, who endorsed Mr. Trump quickly after Mr. Trump became the presumptive nominee early last month, has been vocal in his concern that the remarks on Hispanics will have a historic effect along the lines of the remarks Barry Goldwater made on the party's ability to woo black voters after he declined to support the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

Mr. McConnell said the alternative to Mr. Trump -- a second Clinton presidency -- was worse. But he also urged Mr. Trump to stop focusing on the recent past and to look toward the future.

"This is a good time, it seems to me, to begin to try to unify the party," Mr. McConnell said.

"And you unify the party by not settling scores and grudges against people you've been competing with," he added. "We're all behind him now. And I'd like to see him reach out and pull us all together and give us a real shot at winning this November."
