But with the Democratic National Convention beginning in Philadelphia on Monday, the prospects have dimmed for the two liberal senators who were being considered, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Sherrod Brown of Ohio. That has led to more liberal scrutiny of Mr. Kaine's record.

Mrs. Clinton's campaign has kept a tight lid on its search for a vice-presidential candidate. A spokeswoman for the campaign declined to comment. An aide to Ms. Warren planned to meet with Mrs. Clinton's campaign manager, Robby Mook, on Thursday afternoon to discuss how they could work together, which was interpreted by some people with knowledge of the process as a sign that Mrs. Clinton had settled on a choice.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Liberals say they are concerned about Mr. Kaine's positions on global trade deals and Wall Street regulation. He has been an outspoken advocate of free trade and has defended the North American Free Trade Agreement, which many voters in Rust Belt states blame for the loss of manufacturing jobs to Mexico. He voted in support of "fast track" authority for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a 12-nation trade pact that President Obama has championed.

Two others under consideration, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and Labor Secretary Thomas E. Perez, also supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership. But Mr. Perez, who is popular among labor unions, has criticized Nafta, which Mr. Trump has called "a disaster." After praising the Trans-Pacific Partnership as secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton has recently said as a candidate, "I don't believe it's going to meet the high bar I've set" on protecting American workers, the environment and other issues.

Video

About 60 percent of voters said trade with other countries caused job losses in the United States, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll. Mr. Trump has a slight edge over Mrs. Clinton on the question of who voters consider better poised to tackle the trade issue.

Putting Mr. Kaine on the ticket "could be disastrous for our efforts to defeat Donald Trump in the fall" because of his support of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, said Charles Chamberlain, executive director of Democracy for America, a liberal political action committee.

Mr. Kaine, the son of a welder who owned a small metalworking shop in a Kansas City suburb, could help Mrs. Clinton attract white male voters and independents. Those voters may prove more critical to her chances in November than the young liberal voters who backed Mr. Sanders in the primaries.

Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

As governor of Virginia, Mr. Kaine appealed to both Democrats in urban pockets and independents in rural areas, and established a reputation as a pragmatic consensus builder. "He'd appeal to people in the Midwest because that's his roots," said Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond. And Mr. Tobias said Virginians across political lines considered him "a thoroughly decent and honest person."

Mr. Sanders endorsed Mrs. Clinton this month, declaring she is "far and away the best candidate." And while polls suggest that most of his supporters plan to vote for her in November, some surveys suggest that only a small fraction of them will do so enthusiastically and that Mrs. Clinton remains unpopular with independents.

"Hillary Clinton's vice-presidential pick will be seen by many as a proxy for how she will govern -- boldly, or cautiously?" said Stephanie Taylor, a co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee. She referred to the army of small-dollar donors who fueled Mr. Sanders's candidacy, adding, "The wrong pick could deflate energy among potential donors and volunteers, hurting Democratic efforts to win the White House."

No running mate can please every demographic and constituency. Senator Cory Booker, also in the running for the No. 2 spot, supported Gov. Chris Christie's push in New Jersey to expand charter schools and implement merit-based pay for teachers. Those positions made him deeply unpopular among the teachers' unions who have been among Mrs. Clinton's most loyal supporters.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Thursday, Mr. Booker, speaking from the Republican National Convention in Cleveland, defended Mrs. Clinton and derided Mr. Trump as "someone who has been so indiscriminate with his demeaning and degrading language." Asked about the prospect of Mr. Kaine on the Democratic ticket, Mr. Booker praised his Senate colleague. "Tim Kaine is one of the most honorable people I've met in all of politics."
