The monthly figure was a record for Mr. Trump and provided evidence of his powerful appeal among grass-roots donors: The campaign now estimates that 2.6 million people have given to his campaign. But it was only a small improvement over his fund-raising in July and August, suggesting he might have peaked.

Moreover, Mr. Trump has so far not followed through on promises to spend $100 million of his own fortune on the campaign. In September, he contributed $2 million, his usual amount since he became the Republican nominee, leaving him roughly $44 million short of his goal.

Mr. Trump also said he would blitz Mrs. Clinton with $100 million in advertising, but he has spent about $32 million, according to two Republican media buyers, although they have reserved substantial additional advertising in swing states.

"Our ad spending strategy has not changed," Hope Hicks, a Trump spokeswoman, wrote in an email. "Mr. Trump continues to make significant contributions to his campaign."

Mr. Trump is not starved for cash and could still make additional investments in television and turnout to increase his chances on Nov. 8. But his campaign has been marred by disagreements with Republican organizations in some key states.

On Saturday, Mr. Trump's campaign cut ties with Matt Borges, the chairman of the Republican Party in Ohio, a pivotal swing state. A Trump aide accused Mr. Borges of publicly undermining Mr. Trump to promote his own ambitions to run for chairman of the Republican National Committee.

In a letter to other Ohio Republicans, the aide, Robert Paduchik, said Mr. Borges had spent the past week on a "self-promotional media tour with state and national outlets to criticize our party's nominee."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Still, Mr. Paduchik added that he expected the Ohio Republican Party to keep covering payroll costs that it had been paying on behalf of Mr. Trump's campaign.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Some leading Republican donors have tried an awkward straddle, providing money to a "super PAC" that is focused on attacking Mrs. Clinton but is said to be aiming its fire to achieve maximum benefit for Republican House and Senate candidates endangered by Mr. Trump's slide.

That group, called Future45, received $5 million from the casino magnate Sheldon Adelson in September and the same amount from his wife, Miriam. An additional $2.3 million came from Joe Ricketts, the TD Ameritrade founder, and other donors, including the coal magnate Joe Craft.

But disclosures filed with the Federal Election Commission on Saturday hinted at fragmentation and disarray among outside groups that support Mr. Trump and have competed with one another for dollars and turf.

While Mr. Trump's sons and advisers have appeared at fund-raisers for two groups -- Great America PAC and Rebuilding America Now -- at least three additional super PACs have organized in apparent support of him.

One, called Save America From Its Government, was founded by Andrew Beal, a banker and real estate investor who is a member of Mr. Trump's economic advisory team. According to disclosures filed with the Federal Election Commission, Mr. Beal gave $2 million to the group in September, nearly all of the money it reported raising.

A fourth group, a committee called American Horizons, was attacked by the Trump campaign this summer for promoting a "Dinner With Donald" contest that Mr. Trump had neither authorized nor agreed to. The complaints do not appear to have affected fund-raising: American Horizons raised $750,000 from July to September, a third of it from donors giving hundreds of dollars each.

The committee has spent just $12,000 on expenditures backing Mr. Trump. But the biggest chunk of spending, about $400,000, went to fees to a consulting firm owned by the PAC's treasurer.
