Less than an hour before the caucuses began, Mrs. Clinton was shaking hands in the employee cafeteria at Harrah's casino. "I need your help this morning, in the showroom at 11 a.m.," she told the predominantly Spanish-speaking workers.

Several Hispanic voters cheered Mrs. Clinton with enthusiasm. "She'll change immigration. She'll change the economy. She'll change todo!" said Dora Gonzalez, 54, a casino porter at the Bellagio, using the Spanish word for everything.

"And she's a mujer!" added her friend Elba Pinera, 51, originally from Honduras, using the Spanish word for woman.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Sanders, who performed well in the predominantly white states of Iowa and New Hampshire, is now under pressure to show that he can attract the broad cross-section of Democrats necessary to remain competitive with Mrs. Clinton.

Mr. Sanders did appeal to a good number of Hispanic voters: According to entrance polls by Edison Research, he was ahead of Mrs. Clinton among Hispanics. These numbers may not reflect the final vote tally, however, because Mrs. Clinton was performing strongly in heavily Hispanic neighborhoods around Clark County, which encompasses Las Vegas. Mrs. Clinton won 60 percent of the delegates in the 22 Latino-majority precincts that had reported results on Saturday night, according to her campaign aides.

Mr. Sanders fared poorly among African-American voters, earning support from only 22 percent of them, according to the entrance polls.

Sanders advisers acknowledged on Saturday that his weak performance with African-Americans meant he could face significant difficulties in the South Carolina primary and the Super Tuesday states, many of which have large African-American populations. Mr. Sanders has been reluctant to reshape his political message to appeal more sharply or dramatically to black voters -- which he did not do in his concession speech here -- and political analysts said that time was running out to show he could expand his base of support.

Video

"When will Sanders prove that he can win a state with a big minority population? That has to be his top goal right now, and he's far from it," said Brent F. Nelsen, a political scientist at Furman University in South Carolina. "A lot of Sanders loyalists here are confused why African-Americans aren't supporting Bernie, since he's speaking their economic language. But a lot of blacks here and elsewhere also care about personal loyalty and relationships, and Clinton has a strong edge there."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Sanders's earlier surges in Iowa, where he nearly tied Mrs. Clinton, and in New Hampshire came at a high price, according to campaign finance data released on Saturday. He spent $35 million in January, an enormous amount, and ended the month with half as much cash on hand as Mrs. Clinton, after out-raising her by several million dollars.

In Nevada, Mrs. Clinton benefited from deep connections to the state. Robby Mook, her campaign manager, had served as her Nevada director when she narrowly defeated Mr. Obama here in 2008. Her current state director, Emmy Ruiz, delivered a victory in Nevada to Mr. Obama in his 2012 re-election campaign.

Her support among labor also ran deep, even though the Culinary Workers Union, which represents 57,000 members, many of whom are Latino, declined to endorse a candidate. But on Thursday, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, who also remained neutral, said in an interview he had spoken to D. Taylor, the head of the union's parent group, to make sure its members could have paid time off to participate in the caucuses, a move that operatives in the state believed helped tip the race in Mrs. Clinton's favor.

She overwhelmingly defeated Mr. Sanders in the caucuses that were held at six major Las Vegas casinos, including Harrah's, the Wynn and New York-New York, which heavily drew working-class minority voters.

Before the 2008 election, Mr. Reid lobbied for Nevada to be among the early-voting states, arguing that its mix of urban and rural areas, and a population that is nearly half minority, could indicate how candidates would fare among a more diverse electorate. "If you're my color and you start school, you'll be in a minority in Clark County," Mr. Reid said Thursday in an interview, referring to the state's most populous county.

The state has just six electoral votes in the general election, but its population reflects the composition of other potential Western battlegrounds like Colorado, Arizona and New Mexico.

The Nevada results were personally important for Mrs. Clinton, who struggled in 2008 to win caucus states, though she prevailed here against Barack Obama. In this campaign, she has won the two caucuses so far, here and in Iowa. Immediately following her speech, Mrs. Clinton flew to Houston for a rally. "I'm on my way to Texas. Bill is on his way to Colorado. The fight goes on!" she said.
