The increasingly personal lines of attack against Mr. Cruz in a public setting mark a shift in the race for the Republican presidential nomination that started during Thursday's debate and spilled onto the campaign trail on Saturday. Two weeks before the Iowa caucuses, the apparent nonaggression pact between the two leading candidates is a distant memory.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz sparred from afar earlier in the day, at campaign stops and on Twitter, with Mr. Cruz continuing to denounce the billionaire developer's "New York values" and history of liberal policy positions. Mr. Trump, who has sometimes falsely claimed that he is a self-funding candidate, painted Mr. Cruz as beholden to wealthy campaign donors and as tethered to Wall Street. Mr. Cruz's wife works for Goldman Sachs, and last week, he acknowledged receiving a Goldman Sachs loan for his 2012 Senate campaign that he had not properly disclosed.

Mr. Trump also did not relent on Mr. Cruz's eligibility to be president. In an interview on the sidelines of the South Carolina Tea Party Coalition convention, Mr. Trump maintained that Mr. Cruz's being born in Canada was a problem, and he noted that lawsuits questioning Mr. Cruz's status as a "natural born citizen" are already being filed. Despite saying during last week's debate that he would not file his own lawsuit, on Saturday Mr. Trump would not rule out the possibility.

"I'll think about it," Mr. Trump said. "It's not something that I would want to do. It's certainly something I would have standing to do. It's not a priority. Because I'm beating him by so much, anyway, what do I have to bring a suit for?"

Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

During his moment onstage, Mr. Cruz did not denounce Mr. Trump directly and did not mention his name. He offered himself as a trustworthy alternative to candidates who tell conservatives what they want to hear.

"How many people have been burned by politicians?" Mr. Cruz, who spoke less than two hours before Mr. Trump addressed the same group, said. "It happens over and over and over again."

In a lawyerly fashion, Mr. Cruz laid out the argument that his actions validate his promises, presenting a list of trust "metrics," such as battling the Affordable Care Act and refusing to give up on the fight against same-sex marriage.

He also made an effort to contrast with Mr. Trump stylistically. Last week, when a microphone failed at one of his rallies, Mr. Trump cursed the provider of the device and said that he should not be paid for his shoddy work. When Mr. Cruz's microphone fell silent on Saturday, he calmly asked for a replacement and playfully tapped his fingers against it to determine if it was working.

Despite the recent infighting between the two candidates, supporters of Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump did not seem to be persuaded by questions about Canadian roots or flip-flops on positions of the past.

"I do not want a politician," said Marlajean Hamby, 74, a supporter of Mr. Trump. "I would vote for Attila the Hun if he would go to Washington and tear things up."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Paul Anderko, who supports Mr. Cruz, said he was pleased that the senator has dropped the pleasantries and started to fight back against Mr. Trump.

"I was happy to see Ted stand up to Donald," said Mr. Anderko, 67. "I think Trump is scared in Iowa."

Despite claiming to be just a counterpuncher, Mr. Trump also seems to be glad to have finally lured Mr. Cruz into a fight.

"I've been asking, 'When is it going to start,' " Mr. Trump, who previously called Mr. Cruz a friend, said in the interview. "Nobody likes him. Nobody in Washington likes him."
