On Thursday, Mr. Ryan appeared to be cautiously leaning in the direction of a growing group of Republicans who have decided that embracing Mr. Trump is their best defense against Democrats maintaining the White House for another four years. "Going forward, we're going to go a little deeper in the policy weeds to make sure we have a better understanding of one another," Mr. Ryan said.

Video

"It was important that we discussed our differences that we have," Mr. Ryan said in a news conference. "But it was also important that we discuss the core principles that tie us together."

Mr. Trump also met with the broader House leadership team and with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, and his staff, a meeting the Trump campaign had requested. In wide-ranging discussions that touched on trade, abortion, Supreme Court justices and tax policy, several lawmakers said they stressed to Mr. Trump the need to have a unified policy agenda and made gentle suggestions on how to change his tone, to recapture the White House and to prevent damage to Republican candidates down the ballot.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On immigration, in particular, Mr. Trump was told that "there is a way to talk about issues that people don't find offensive," Senator John Cornyn of Texas said.

Mr. Ryan and Mr. Trump met at the Republican National Committee for 45 minutes on Thursday morning, with Reince Priebus, the committee's chairman, as their chaperone.

Mr. Ryan gave no public signal that he was poised to back Mr. Trump, and two people briefed on their private meeting said they did not discuss a possible endorsement. Mr. Ryan told Mr. Trump that while he wanted to support him, their staff members must keep talking, people briefed on the conversation said.

But in effusive remarks after the sit-down, Mr. Ryan insisted that the party leadership was not on the brink of an irreparable split.

Photo

"Donald Trump and I have had our differences -- we talked about those differences today," Mr. Ryan said, adding, "I do believe that we are now planting the seeds to get ourselves unified."

With his conciliatory language toward Mr. Trump, Mr. Ryan embarked on a perilous gamble with the volatile force of the businessman's personality -- which the speaker characterized as "very good" -- and with Mr. Trump's shape-shifting on policy.

While Mr. Ryan noted that Mr. Trump had expressed openness to his policy positions, about 12 hours earlier Mr. Trump had called for an increase in the federal minimum wage, as part of a series of insulting Twitter messages aimed at Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts.

Mr. Ryan, along with other Republicans who sounded even more won over by Mr. Trump on Thursday, risks getting on board with one Trump, only to possibly find a new version making statements he finds untenable, even repugnant, weeks or months later.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"I totally endorse him," said Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, where Mr. Trump is viewed largely unfavorably. "Judge him by his children," Mr. Hatch said, noting that Mr. Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, attended the meeting with senators. The focus of the agenda, Mr. Hatch said, was trade, tax policy and immigration, adding that Mr. Trump mostly listened.

Mr. Ryan's remarks are likely to help ease the friction between the two camps, at least for the moment, and perhaps to buy the speaker and his conference some time as they decide how to handle their new standard-bearer.

Video

Mr. Trump, too, ratcheted down his criticism of Mr. Ryan. In an interview later Thursday on Fox News, Mr. Trump said that he viewed their meeting as a success, and that he was willing to be patient in order to bring the party's factions together. "I don't mind going through a little bit of a slow process," Mr. Trump said, noting that he and Mr. Ryan had discussed judicial nominations in their sit-down.

Seeming to hint at some areas of disagreement with Mr. Ryan, Mr. Trump added that trade and border security were two issues he felt "very strongly about."

Conflicting forces have tugged at Mr. Ryan since Mr. Trump emerged as the presumptive nominee. Within the Republican conference, there is a growing group of lawmakers who have endorsed Mr. Trump, but also a number of Republicans in difficult re-election races who want the freedom to break openly with their party's candidate for president. And opposition to Mr. Trump runs high among political donors and conservative intellectuals supportive of Mr. Ryan and his agenda.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The next step, Mr. Ryan said, would be to "go deeper into the policy areas" where there may be disagreements between congressional Republicans and Mr. Trump. Should Mr. Trump defy Mr. Ryan on policy, the speaker has so far reserved the right to back away from their uneasy relationship.

Mr. Trump's pilgrimage to Washington posed a critical test for his candidacy at the onset of the general election campaign. Without the blessing of Republican leaders in Congress, Mr. Trump could be frozen out by major party donors and viewed with even deeper suspicion by the middle-of-the-road voters he would need to compete against his likely Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton.

In a gesture uncharacteristic of Mr. Trump's campaign, he also spoke by phone on Wednesday with Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an implacable Trump critic whom Mr. Trump has savaged in the past. Mr. Graham released a statement Thursday saying they had a "good 15-minute discussion," mainly on matters of national security, though his own vow not to vote for Mr. Trump remained unchanged.

As the meetings began Thursday, Democrats commenced with a bit of political parallel play, mocking Mr. Trump and trying hard to tie Republican members of Congress to his more contentious statements. "Since Senator McConnell has so enthusiastically embraced Trump," Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the minority leader, said on the Senate floor Thursday, "we can only assume he agrees with Trump's view that women are dogs and pigs."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In some respects, Mr. Trump's meetings with Mr. Ryan and the Senate leaders resemble a kind of custody negotiation between estranged parents, with the Republican Party caught in the middle. Intense distrust plagues the relationship, rooted in a fundamental divergence of worldview and exacerbated by petty slights during the 2016 primary race.

Yet, for Mr. Trump and the congressional leaders, the political incentives are heavily in favor of conciliation -- or at least the appearance of good will. Despite considerable differences on matters of policy and campaign strategy, it is in no one's interest for them to air those disagreements continually.

Mr. Trump said he did not aim to change the party platform, a commitment one Trump adviser had described beforehand as a potential "give point" in the talks. Indeed, Mr. McConnell will choose the person who actually writes the party platform, and will probably have more control than Mr. Trump on that front unless Mr. Trump chooses to push back.

At the same time, it seemed increasingly clear that some Republicans, noting the popularity of Mr. Trump's anti-free-trade message across the country, may be open to accommodating his point of view.

"It certainly is causing people to look at the broader implications of trade agreements," said Senator Susan Collins of Maine. Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee also said that the resonance of Mr. Trump's policy messages could no longer be ignored.

"We need to listen to the people," he said.
