But as Mr. Sanders fights to close the delegate gap, his comments sent a shudder through party officials aligned with Mrs. Clinton. In her campaign's planning, April was meant to be a relatively calm month in which to focus on raising money for a general election and honing a message to use against the eventual Republican nominee. Mr. Sanders's staying power and online fund-raising prowess have instead caused her campaign to spend heavily for advertising in expensive media markets.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But an extended -- and increasingly toxic -- nomination fight, several advisers said, could deplete Mrs. Clinton of resources and leave scars that make it harder for her to unite his supporters behind her.

"Progressives are going to have to come together in November to defeat whatever crawls out of the G.O.P. circus in Cleveland," said Jess McIntosh, communications director at Emily's List, a group that works to elect women who support abortion rights and has endorsed Mrs. Clinton. "There are a few attacks that make it harder to do that, and Bernie Sanders is going there."

Photo

Supporters of Mr. Sanders dismissed the Clinton camp's reaction to his remarks as hypocrisy and fake outrage. After all, Mrs. Clinton had attacked Barack Obama's experience during their contentious 2008 primary race. "I have a lifetime of experience that I will bring to the White House," she said then. "Senator Obama has a speech he gave in 2002."

And a #HillarySoQualified hashtag started by Clinton supporters became a vehicle for Mr. Sanders's legions of tech-savvy young supporters to hit her. "#HillarySoQualified she gets to call others unqualified but is outraged when others do the same to her," a Sanders supporter wrote.

Mr. Sanders's attack was at odds with his vow not to engage in negative campaigning; he even declared in the first Democratic debate in the fall that the public was "sick and tired" of hearing about Mrs. Clinton's emails.

But it was not entirely out of character for a Brooklyn-born man who in the past has shown a willingness to land a punch.

Video

And after appearing blindsided by New York politics this week, Mr. Sanders responded angrily.

In an interview with The Daily News published Monday, he struggled to elaborate on the details of some of his own policy proposals, including those on Wall Street regulation. The Clinton campaign pounced, sending the transcript to supporters, and Mrs. Clinton suggested to MSNBC on Wednesday that Mr. Sanders had not done his "homework" when it came to Wall Street regulation -- his signature campaign issue.

Mr. Sanders was moved to retaliate, and he struck back harder than he had before. Seizing on a headline in The Washington Post -- "Clinton Questions Whether Sanders is Qualified to be President" -- Mr. Sanders turned the questioning around on her.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"She has been saying lately that she thinks that I am, quote unquote, not qualified to be president," Mr. Sanders said at a rally in Philadelphia. "I don't believe that she is qualified if she is, through her 'super PAC,' taking tens of millions of dollars in special interest funds."

He added: "I don't think you are qualified if you have voted for the disastrous war in Iraq. I don't think you are qualified if you supported almost every disastrous trade agreement."

Aides to Mr. Sanders stuck by that line of attack, insisting Thursday that he was merely defending himself, as any born-and-bred New Yorker should.

"Bernie, really, was the guy who made this decision that he was not going to be run over in the New York primary," said Tad Devine, his senior strategist. "It is a very tough, aggressive media environment, as anyone who lives there understands, and we felt compelled to respond to her charges and he did so."

But other Democrats interpreted Mr. Sanders's shot at Mrs. Clinton -- and a suggestion by his campaign manager that Mrs. Clinton's "ambitions to become president" could "destroy the Democratic Party" -- as an awkward attempt to regain ground after being battered by the Daily News interview.

"Bernie and his team were off stride after the Daily News editorial interview and took the bait, some of which was laid by the Clinton campaign," said David Axelrod, a former adviser to President Obama, who is not supporting either candidate.

Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

On Thursday night, Mr. Sanders told CBS News: "We should not get into this tit for tat. We should be debating the issues."

Mr. Sanders's campaign hopes the show of forcefulness will convince supporters that he is not ceding ground, and bolster its efforts to sway delegates backing Mrs. Clinton to flip their support to him, as it managed to at the Clark County convention in Nevada.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Calling Mrs. Clinton unqualified struck some Democrats as a strategic misfire, as more voters say she has the right experience for the job than say that Mr. Sanders does. In a February Quinnipiac University poll, 64 percent of all registered voters and 93 percent of Democratic voters said Mrs. Clinton had the right experience, compared with 54 percent and 75 percent for Mr. Sanders.

Even he has said he would be comfortable with Mrs. Clinton as president. "I would be most comfortable with me as president," Mr. Sanders said in an interview in January. "But if the choice is between right-wing Republicans," he said, Mrs. Clinton "is the far superior candidate."

Asked about Mr. Sanders's attack on Thursday, Mrs. Clinton did not respond in kind. "Well, it's kind of a silly thing to say," she told reporters on a stop in the Bronx on Thursday. "But I'm going to trust the voters of New York who know me and have voted for me three times."

And in a halfhearted endorsement of Mr. Sanders's qualifications, Mrs. Clinton added that he was better than the Republicans running. "I don't know why he's saying that, but I will take Bernie Sanders over Donald Trump or Ted Cruz any time," she said.
