Donald Trump is following through on threats made to be "nastier" to Hillary Clinton.

In an evening rally outside of Lancaster, Trump attacked his Democratic rival on a personal front: her marriage. The off-hand remarks came as Trump discussed Clinton's fealty to her financial donors.

"Hillary Clinton's only loyalty is to her financial contributors and to herself. I don't even think she's loyal to Bill, if you want to know the truth," he said, as the crowd applauded.

"And really, folks, really, why should she be, right? Why should she be?" Trump added, alluding to former President Bill Clinton's marital infidelity.

Trump continued to lob attacks against Clinton, some, his usual attacks on her private email server as well as her record as secretary of state. But as his speech meandered, once again, it got personal, alluding to her bout with pneumonia when she stumbled and had to be helped into a van after the Memorial Ceremony on September 11.

"You look at what's going on in the Middle East. When they bomb these cities and they're leveled. You can imagine how many people die. She has been a disaster. But here's a woman, she's supposed to fight all of these different things, and she can't make it 15 feet to her car, give me a break," he told the attendees gathered at a sports complex, Spooky Nook Sports.

He then suggested that Clinton may have a mental ailment.

"Now she's got bad temperament. She could be crazy. She could actually be crazy," he said.

Trump did wade back into less incendiary fare, criticizing Clinton for leaked remarks made about Bernie Sanders supporters during a fundraiser in February.

"To sum up Hillary Clinton's thing, Bernie Sanders supporters are hopeless and ignorant basement dwellers. Then of course she thinks people who vote for and follow us are deplorable and irredeemable," he said

Among Clinton's comments from the event at the home of former U.S. Ambassador Beatrice Welters, she said: "Some are new to politics completely. They're children of the Great Recession. And they are living in their parents' basement. They feel they got their education and the jobs that are available to them are not at all what they envisioned for themselves. And they don't see much of a future."

The audio, released by the Free Beacon, was recorded during the heart of the Democratic primary when the race was close between Clinton and Sanders. Since Clinton became the nominee, Sanders has not only endorsed her -- he spoke at the convention and has been actively campaigning for the former secretary of state in battleground states.

Some Sanders supporters have taken to Twitter voicing their disagreement with the message, but Sanders' deputy communications director Mike Casca and the Clinton campaign have pointed out how the tone of Clinton's audio is not in anyway "mocking" Sanders supporters, as some have reported.
