And Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump's Democratic opponent, said he "was not a normal presidential candidate."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"Someone who attacks everybody has something missing," she told a crowd at a campaign stop in Youngstown, Ohio. "I don't know what it is. I'm not going to get into that."

Mr. Khan's speech at the convention in Philadelphia was one of the most powerful given there. It was effectively the Democratic response to comments Mr. Trump has made implying many American Muslims have terrorist sympathies or stay silent when they know ones who do. Mr. Trump has called to ban Muslim immigration as a way to combat terrorism.

At the convention, Mr. Khan spoke about how his 27-year-old son, Humayun Khan, an Army captain, died in a car bombing in 2004 in Iraq as he tried to save other troops.

He criticized Mr. Trump, saying he "consistently smears the character of Muslims," and pointedly challenged what sacrifices Mr. Trump had made. Holding a pocket-size copy of the Constitution, he asked if Mr. Trump had read it. Mr. Khan's wife stood silently by his side.

Mr. Trump told Mr. Stephanopoulos that Mr. Khan seemed like a "nice guy" and that he wished him "the best of luck." But, he added, "If you look at his wife, she was standing there, she had nothing to say, she probably -- maybe she wasn't allowed to have anything to say, you tell me."

Mr. Trump also told Maureen Dowd of The New York Times on Friday night, "I'd like to hear his wife say something."

In a statement late Saturday, Mr. Trump called Captain Khan a "hero," and reiterated his belief that the United States should bar Muslims from entering the country.

"While I feel deeply for the loss of his son," he added, "Mr. Khan, who has never met me, has no right to stand in front of millions of people and claim I have never read the Constitution, (which is false) and say many other inaccurate things."

Photo

Even given Mr. Trump's reputation for retaliating when attacked, his remarks about the Khans were startling. They called to mind one of his earliest counterpunches of the campaign, when he responded to criticism from Senator John McCain of Arizona, once a prisoner of war in Vietnam, by saying at a forum in Iowa, "I like people that weren't captured."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But Mr. McCain has a long history in the public eye. The Khans, before their convention appearance, had none.

"Trump is totally void of any decency because he is unaware of how to talk to a Gold Star family and how to speak to a Gold Star mother," Mr. Khan said on Saturday.

Ms. Khan did speak on Friday to MSNBC's Lawrence O'Donnell, saying she "cannot even come in the room where his pictures are."

When she saw her son's photograph on the screen behind her on the stage in Philadelphia, she said, "I couldn't take it."

"I controlled myself at that time," she said, while choking back tears. "It is very hard."

In his interview with The Times, Mr. Khan said his wife had helped him craft his convention speech, and told him to remove certain attacks he had wanted to make against Mr. Trump.

But on Saturday, he unmuzzled himself. "Unlike Donald Trump's wife, I didn't plagiarize my speech," Mr. Khan said, referring to how several lines from a Michelle Obama speech found their way into Melania Trump's address at the Republican National Convention.

"I also wanted to talk about how he's had three wives, and yet he talks about others' ethics and their religion," Mr. Khan said. "She said, 'Don't go to his level. We are paying tribute to our son.'"

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Trump's comments provoked another avalanche of criticism on social media, and again put Republican leaders in a difficult position, facing new demands that they repudiate their presidential nominee.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Even before Mr. Trump's remarks to ABC News, Mr. Khan had asked that Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, and Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker, denounce Mr. Trump.

On Saturday, neither directly addressed Mr. Trump's new comments. Don Stewart, a spokesman for Mr. McConnell, referred to Mr. McConnell's response last year that a ban on Muslims entering the United States would be unacceptable.

AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman for Mr. Ryan, delivered a similar response: "The speaker has made clear many times that he rejects this idea, and himself has talked about how Muslim Americans have made the ultimate sacrifice for this country."

In the same ABC News interview, when Mr. Stephanopoulos said that Mr. Khan had pointed out that his family would not have been allowed into the United States under Mr. Trump's proposed ban, the candidate replied, "He doesn't know that."

Photo

And when asked what he would say to the grieving father, Mr. Trump replied, "I'd say, 'We've had a lot of problems with radical Islamic terrorism.'"

Mr. Stephanopoulos also noted that Mr. Khan said that Mr. Trump had "sacrificed nothing," and had lost no one.

"I think I've made a lot of sacrifices," Mr. Trump replied. "I've worked very, very hard. I've created thousands and thousands of jobs."

Some of the fiercest condemnations on Saturday came from Republicans who have argued -- unsuccessfully to date -- that Mr. Trump is unfit to be president.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Tim Miller, a former communications director for Jeb Bush's presidential campaign, called Mr. Trump's comments "inhuman."

"Memo to Trump supporters," Peter Wehner, a speechwriter for President George W. Bush, wrote on Twitter. "He's a man of sadistic cruelty. With him there's no bottom. Now go ahead & defend him."

Reihan Salam, a conservative writer for National Review and a frequent Trump critic, said that Mr. Trump had an opportunity to declare remorse for the Khans while still holding to his own views as a candidate.

"He might have asked why Humayun Khan had died in the first place -- because of a war that many, if not most, Americans regard as a tragic blunder," he said.

"There was really no benefit for Trump in suggesting that Ghazala Khan had been muzzled," he added, "because she could easily come out and say that she had been too grief-stricken to speak, which she did."

Ibrahim Hooper, the spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said on Saturday, "It's really despicable that anyone, let alone a presidential candidate, would choose to dishonor the service of an American who gave his life for this nation."

Ms. Khan, he said, "was obviously there to support her husband, who was offering what many people believe was the most impactful speech of the entire convention."

As is often the case, Mr. Trump, who has had no campaign events this weekend, managed with a few words to overshadow Mrs. Clinton, who was making several stops in Ohio and Pennsylvania with her running mate, Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia.

In the ABC News interview, Mr. Trump also hedged over whether he would participate in the three scheduled debates with Mrs. Clinton. He insinuated that she had worked to schedule two during football games so viewership would be lower, and said that the National Football League had sent him a letter complaining about the timing.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The debates were scheduled in September of last year by the bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates. And while Joe Lockhart, a spokesman for the National Football League, said the league was not thrilled about the scheduling, "we did not send a letter to Trump."
