On Monday, Mrs. Clinton proposed raising the income tax by four percentage points for people earning more than $5 million a year, an idea virtually out of the Sanders playbook. At the same time, she is aggressively challenging Mr. Sanders on gun control and health care, undertaking relentless attacks on Mr. Sanders that can feel somewhat forced, like portraying him as an ally of the National Rifle Association.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton even mocked Mr. Sanders at one point, imitating his defense for supporting a bill shielding gun manufacturers and dealers from liability. "He says, 'Well, I'm from Vermont,' " Mrs. Clinton noted before saying that home-state concerns were not a sufficient explanation.

She is also trying to tap into the popularity of President Obama by embracing his record, and she is dispatching former President Bill Clinton here on Friday for the second time in two weeks -- after insisting for months that she was not running for a third term for either man.

Clinton advisers said they believed Iowa was a single-digit race and have been warning supporters against complacency, admitting that Mr. Sanders's operation in the state was better financed and organized than they had expected. On Saturday, they began trying to undercut his electability with a television ad casting Mrs. Clinton as the strongest possible Democratic nominee, even though some polls show Mr. Sanders would also perform well against Republicans like Donald J. Trump.

An event Monday in Waterloo underscored Mrs. Clinton's challenge: About 300 people welcomed her enthusiastically and listened to her diligently, but many of them, still unsure, rebuffed Clinton aides trying to get them to sign "commitment cards" to caucus for her.

"I personally want to find out if she's trustworthy or not," said Katie Bailey, 71, of Cedar Falls. "There's so much untrust. I want to eyeball her."

Matt Fagerlind, 36, also attended the Clinton event, but found himself thinking about how Mr. Sanders's rallies had the same uplifting emotional intensity as Barack Obama's in 2008. "I think Sanders is going to give her a good run," he said, describing himself as unmoved by Mrs. Clinton and planning to vote for Mr. Sanders.

(Ultimately, a Clinton aide said, about half of the audience signed commitment cards.)

A Sanders victory in Iowa would be a shock, given the institutional advantages held by Mrs. Clinton, a former secretary of state and a favorite of the Iowa Democratic establishment. It would also set off significant momentum for Mr. Sanders heading into the Feb. 9 primary in New Hampshire, where he holds a slight lead in the polls.

Several of Mrs. Clinton's advisers, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the race candidly, said that they were anxious but not panicking about Iowa and that they believed she would still deliver a victory here.

Fact Check: Hillary Clinton Says Law Bars All Suits Against Gun Industry Mrs. Clinton said legislation that Bernie Sanders supported in 2005 forbids all lawsuits against gun makers and sellers. Not all, but nearly. See all Election 2016 fact checks >> After President Obama said last week that he would not support any Democrat who does not favor new gun control measures, Mrs. Clinton has tried to call attention to Mr. Sanders's vote in 2005 for a bill that shields gun manufacturers and dealers from liability lawsuits. Mr. Sanders was a House member at the time; Mrs. Clinton, then a senator from New York, voted against the bill. On MSNBC's "Hardball" on Friday, Mrs. Clinton claimed that the legislation said "no one can sue a gun maker or a gun seller," and on CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday, she said it provided the gun industry with "absolute immunity from any kind of responsibility or liability." The bill, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, followed a flurry of lawsuits against the industry by municipalities. It shields gun manufacturers, sellers and their trade associations from liability lawsuits "resulting from the criminal or unlawful misuse" of firearms and ammunition. When President George W. Bush signed the measure into law, the National Rifle Association called it "the most significant piece of pro-gun legislation in 20 years." But Mrs. Clinton is overstating the breadth of the law. "This statute does not grant blanket immunity to the firearms industry," said Timothy D. Lytton, a law professor at Georgia State University who edited the book "Suing the Gun Industry: A Battle at the Crossroads of Gun Control and Mass Torts." Though its protections are quite expansive, the law specifies six exceptions to the prohibition on civil actions. For example, a victim can sue a dealer who has been convicted of selling a firearm knowing that it would be used to commit a violent crime. Suits are also allowed in matters involving injuries or property damage resulting from manufacturing or design defects, as long as the firearm in question was not used in a criminal act. Another exception allows lawsuits when a gun maker or seller "knowingly violated a state or federal statute applicable to the sale or marketing of the product." These exceptions are narrow, and they do provide broad protections to the gun industry, as Mrs. Clinton suggests. Whether the exceptions would ultimately prove meaningful was a subject of debate when Congress passed the legislation in 2005. "The aim of this bill is clear: to allow legitimate lawsuits against a manufacturer when the legal principles to do so are present," Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota, said at the time. Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, took the opposite view: "These exceptions in the bill have been carefully crafted to prevent lawsuits, not to enable appropriate lawsuits to go forward." Mr. Lytton, the law professor, said the law "pretty much shut down attempts to use the court system in a broad way to try to push for greater industry self-regulation of marketing and distribution of firearms." But the exceptions have not put a complete halt to litigation. In 2008, a lawyer for the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence wrote that "reports of the demise of gun liability cases were premature," adding that "well-pleaded, carefully crafted cases can still proceed against irresponsible gun companies." While courts have barred claims in numerous instances because of the 2005 law, there have also been cases in which suits were allowed to proceed because of the exceptions, according to the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. How courts interpret the exceptions is still unfolding, and lawyers have tried to craft lawsuits that could meet their criteria. As one example, families of some of the victims of the 2012 mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., are suing Remington Outdoor, the maker of the Bushmaster rifle used in the shooting, among other defendants. The families are arguing that the gun maker knew, or should have known, that selling assault rifles to civilians "posed an unreasonable and egregious risk of physical injury," and that its conduct violated the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act. Remington Outdoor is seeking the suit's dismissal. The 2005 law, it said in court papers last month, "was enacted to protect firearm manufacturers against the very claims plaintiffs make in this case." -- Thomas Kaplan Close

Still, some advisers said they were torn about whether the campaign would ultimately regret purposely holding small events in Iowa -- a strategy Mrs. Clinton preferred -- given Mr. Sanders's ability to continue to turn out and energize crowds, which they had not anticipated.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some members of her Iowa team, however, said they were confident that passion for Mrs. Clinton was intensifying.

"It's something that's growing closer to caucus day," said Kane Miller, the Clinton campaign's organizing director for Polk County, which includes Des Moines. "This previous weekend was negative degrees, and 80 percent of people confirmed to volunteer were out knocking on doors. That's a great measure of enthusiasm."

Both Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton garnered applause on Monday night at the Brown and Black Forum at Drake University here, though the crowd seemed more delighted with Mr. Sanders as he denounced a 51 percent unemployment rate for black men with a high school education and joked that he would consider living in the White House to be public housing.

The warmth for Mr. Sanders was notable because of Mrs. Clinton's historical popularity among minority voters, particularly African-Americans. She drew cheers for saying she would not use the term "illegal immigrant" and for pledging to help Central American countries stem the violence that people there flee.

Photo

A poll published on Tuesday, by Quinnipiac University, found that Mr. Sanders had jumped to a lead in Iowa, with 49 percent to Mrs. Clinton's 44 percent, after trailing her by 11 points in mid-December. The Quinnipiac poll also found that liberal Iowans were the most enthusiastic about the election, and that Mr.Sanders was the favorite among these voters. A New York Times/CBS News poll released on Tuesday showed Mrs. Clinton's once formidable lead shrinking from 20 points a month ago to seven points.

The tightened race is revealing a sharp generational divide within the Democratic Party, with primary voters under age 45 favoring Mr. Sanders by a roughly 2-to-1 ratio.

The Clinton campaign still has significant structural advantages in Iowa to help turn out caucus voters. The state's most popular Democrats have endorsed Mrs. Clinton, including former Senator Tom Harkin and former Gov. Tom Vilsack, helping her leverage their political networks. She also has endorsements from unions and groups like the Planned Parenthood Action Fund.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Advisers for Mrs. Clinton say they have strong organizations in the most populous counties and have compiled data on tens of thousands of Democrats, many of whom who are receiving phone calls or visits from teams of volunteers who crowd field offices like Mr. Miller's. Mrs. Clinton's campaign manager, Robby Mook, is also a veteran of caucus contests, while strategists like Joel Benenson were part of Mr. Obama's campaign in 2008.

Mr. Sanders's supporters point to his grass-roots strengths: He has more than 14,000 volunteers in Iowa, and he has spoken to more than 40,000 people at events in the state so far, huge numbers that include young people, independents and new voters who might not be on pollsters' call sheets. (Mrs. Clinton's advisers declined to say how many volunteers she had or people she had spoken to in Iowa.)

Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

"I think his secret weapon, maybe his silver bullet even, is the young adult population that hasn't been involved in politics up until this point," said Katie Mitchell, 28, a middle school teacher who lives in Des Moines.

Mrs. Clinton's campaign is trying to shore up her base among female voters: Lena Dunham, the star of the HBO series "Girls," was deployed on Saturday to make a feminist pitch for Mrs. Clinton to crowds of mostly young women in Iowa. Yet many younger women who gathered did not share Ms. Dunham's visceral enthusiasm for Mrs. Clinton, saying that for most of their lives she has been a familiar fixture of establishment politics rather than an exciting new voice or an agent of change.

"Bernie Sanders feels new, and Hillary seems like a Washington insider," said Laura Cornell, 17, who was encouraged by friends to hear Ms. Dunham's pitch but remained committed to Mr. Sanders.

Many of the Sanders supporters interviewed said they felt personally moved by what they described as his sincerity. Bert Permar, 86, a retired professor, said he had gone to four Sanders events and was now making calls to share the candidate's message.

"I love to see him. He motivates me," Mr. Permar said on Sunday, sitting in the front row at a Sanders forum on veterans' issues in Marshalltown. "I get emotional. It brings tears that someone is talking about the issues that we should be concerned about."
