In a statement, Mr. Trump's campaign said that he "has determined that for the safety of all of the tens of thousands of people that have gathered in and around the arena, tonight's rally will be postponed to another date."

Photo

"Thank you very much for your attendance and please go in peace," the statement said.

On MSNBC, Mr. Trump said that after meeting with the law enforcement authorities, "I felt it was just safer. I don't want to see anybody get hurt."

Asked about the images of people clashing at the rally, Mr. Trump said, "Honestly, we have a very divided country."

Mr. Trump's opponents, Senator Marco Rubio, Senator Ted Cruz and Gov. John Kasich, condemned the disruptions, but said Mr. Trump was responsible for the tenor of his rallies. Mr. Cruz said Mr. Trump "affirmatively encourages violence."

For hours, the Chicago police, along with university officers, the federal authorities and others, were out here in force. A Chicago police spokesman said that city law enforcement authorities were not consulted and had no role in canceling the event. The spokesman said there had been five arrests, two by the Chicago police, two by the university's police and one by the Illinois State Police. The fire department said three people, including a police officer, were injured.

The prospect of a Trump rally here had long been fraught with apprehension. This city has been in turmoil over questions of race and policing for months. The release in November of a video of the fatal shooting of Laquan McDonald, a black teenager, by a white Chicago police officer had set off weeks of protest.

The University of Illinois at Chicago draws a significant share of students from Chicago's neighborhoods, and has a large number of international students, and planned protests were publicized on social media. Around 10,000 people had signed up on Facebook to take part in one anti-Trump march. Scores of faculty members had pleaded with administrators over allowing the rally in a letter, which read, in part: "We also request that the university publicly distance itself from the event and make a statement that the Trump rally is an anathema to the mission of U.I.C."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the hours before the event, inside the 9,500-seat arena, Mr. Trump's backers were energized. Some dressed in outfits to match his, and chanted "Trump! Trump! Trump!" as they waited.

Photo

But the situation grew tense as the size of the protest crowd became clear, and as some yelled anti-Trump slogans and skirmished with the supporters. Three men in T-shirts that read, "Muslims United Against Trump," departed early on, delighting the pro-Trump crowd.

Outside, a tense standoff mounted as well. A line stretched for blocks while ticketholders -- a diverse mix of older whites wearing Trump gear and younger African-American and Muslim students -- waited to be allowed inside. Some said they were devoted Trump fans eager to hear him speak in person. "I believe in Trump absolutely," said Jana Hayek, a Chicagoan and stay-at-home mother, holding the hand of her 12-year-old son, Peter. "I definitely agree with his immigration policy. It's important to control who comes into this country."

A large group opposing Mr. Trump merrily taunted the people entering the stadium with shouts of "Donald Trump has got to go" and signs caricaturing Mr. Trump as a fascist with a Hitler mustache. (In one only-in-Chicago insult, a protester carried a sign reading, "Trump puts ketchup on his hot dog.") And then, suddenly, an announcement declared the event "over" and repeated it several times.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

As people streamed out, supporters of Mr. Trump were angry and frustrated. Anthony Pieroni, 19, a student at the university and a Republican, said he was disappointed. "I understand why people didn't want him to come here," he said. "People were fighting, ripping up signs, going crazy. It was just a terrible idea."

But protesters were jubilant, and celebrated along the intersections on the city's Near West Side. Some protesters shut down lanes of a nearby expressway.

Arguments and small skirmishes broke out along the streets. At one point, the police rushed in, separating people.

At least one man was hit on the head with a police baton, witnesses said, and blood could be seen coming from a gash on his face. A woman, also bloodied, was led away by police.

"They got the job done," Vickie Deanda, 54, an accountant from Chicago, said of the demonstrators. "Someone has to object to this hatred. The people inside have a right to be there. But we have a right to be here, too."
