Mr. Trump also said he saw "a big parallel" between the vote in Britain and the broader populist, anti-establishment sentiment that helped fuel his rise to the status of presumptive Republican presidential nominee.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"People want to take their country back, they want to have independence in a sense, and you see it with Europe, all over Europe, and you're going to have more than just, in my opinion, more than just what happened last night," Mr. Trump said. "You're going to have many other cases where people want to take their borders back, they want to take their monetary back, they want to take a lot of things back, they want to be able to have a country again."

His message in favor of "Brexit" was not necessarily welcome here in Scotland, whose citizens had overwhelmingly voted to remain part of Europe and were already discussing the possibility of breaking from England as a result of Thursday's vote.

Early in June, Mr. Trump did not even know what Brexit referred to, and as recently as Wednesday, he said that his opinion on the referendum was insignificant because he had not been following the issue closely.

But hours after Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain announced that he was going to resign as a result of the vote, Mr. Trump offered his own political analysis, saying frustration with the status quo had helped influence the result.

"People are angry, all over the world people, they're angry," he said. "They're angry over borders, they're angry over people coming into the country and taking over, nobody even knows who they are. They're angry about many, many things."

Mr. Trump's trip came at an unusual moment -- just a month before the Republican National Convention, and as many of his aides privately fretted about the timing of the visit as he seeks to unite the party behind him. He arrived after a tough week in the United States -- the firing of his campaign manager and the revelation that his campaign has stunningly little cash on hand -- and the bucolic backdrop belied the turmoil roiling Europe, the markets and even his own political operation.

At the news conference, he was pressed repeatedly on the British referendum, and at several points he blamed Mr. Obama, who had urged Britain not to split from the European Union. "It's not his country, it's not his part of the world, he shouldn't have done it, and I actually think that his recommendation perhaps caused it to fail," Mr. Trump said.

He also attacked Hillary Clinton, saying she had "misread" the mood of the country -- violating a tacit rule of decorum that politics stop at the water's edge.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Still, Mr. Trump's visit at times had the feel of an American abroad promoting his moneyed golf links, rather than his own candidacy for president. He was greeted, much like the queen of England would be met, by staff members of Trump Turnberry -- all clad in red "Make Turnberry Great Again" hats -- as well as bagpipers who, along with Secret Service agents, preceded him up the sloping steps to his property. And he waxed proud about his golf resort for more than 15 minutes, before finally taking questions on the seismic news of the day.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

At one point, Mr. Trump even compared his renovation of Trump Turnberry to how he is hoping to overhaul the United States. When a reporter pointed out -- correctly -- that a country is hardly a golf course, Mr. Trump replied: "No it's not, but you'll be amazed how similar it is. It's a place that has to be fixed."

Other candidates have made such trips abroad to burnish their foreign policy credentials and elevate themselves as a statesman in the eyes of voters back home, jamming their days with high-level meetings with dignitaries.

But not Mr. Trump, whose business interests have long prescribed his political ones. Despite landing the day after the referendum, his itinerary consisted simply of 48 hours spread across two of his golf courses -- one on Scotland's southwest coast on Friday, the other in Balmedie on Saturday, overlooking the chilly North Sea. (Asked if he had huddled with his foreign policy advisers about "Brexit," he replied, "I've been in touch with them but there's nothing to talk about.")

Yet even across the ocean, Mr. Trump was unable to escape the news of the campaign trail. A group of Scottish communities and leaders organized a phone call Friday to discuss their opposition to Mr. Trump's candidacy.

Mr. Trump, who nonetheless received a fairly warm welcome in Scotland, where locals say they appreciate the money he has poured into the village economy since buying the golf course in 2014, is unlikely to be greeted as cheerfully when he visits Balmedie, north of Aberdeen.

There, his course, Trump International Golf Links, has been rived with controversy, with Mr. Trump trying to push locals out of their homes, promising jobs that never materialized, fighting over an offshore wind farm and even suing the Scottish government. Mr. Trump, whose comments about Mexicans and Hispanics have enraged many, including members of his own party, is expected to be met with a giant Mexican flag flying in view of his clubhouse -- an act of protest by two local men.

Frank Cruickshanks, 52, who is a caddy at Mr. Trump's property, including for Mr. Trump's son Eric, said he appreciated the work Mr. Trump had put into overhauling the golf course.

"Having caddied for the last three weeks, mostly for Americans, I have yet to meet one who's voting for Hillary Clinton," Mr. Cruickshanks said.

Asked if those American tourists were voting, then, for Mr. Trump, Mr. Cruickshanks paused. "No, I didn't say that," he said, with a mischievous grin.
