Just days after the massacre at a gay nightclub in Orlando, and after a long primary campaign in which Republican candidates often seemed preoccupied with war, terrorism and related fears, Hillary Clinton's first ad of the general election strikes a gentler and more reassuring tone. It seeks to reintroduce her to voters, ostensibly by highlighting lesser-known aspects of her work on behalf of families and children.

THE MESSAGE Titled "Always," the minute-long commercial begins with home movie footage of Mrs. Clinton as a toddler, teetering down steps with a grown-up's help and waving to the camera with a toothy smile. "She would grow up to be one of the most recognizable women in the world," a male narrator says, over now-familiar pictures of Mrs. Clinton, some alongside her husband. "But less well-known are the causes that have been at the center of her life." The ad cites her work "helping get disabled kids out of the shadows and into their local schools"; bringing "reform to some of the poorest schools in the nation"; working "with Republicans and Democrats" to enact the Children's Health Insurance Program, which "today is covering eight million kids"; and, as secretary of state, "working to end the trafficking of women and girls." Acknowledging, ever so wispily, that "through the years there have been challenges, setbacks," the ad says one thing has never changed: "Helping children has been a cause of her life, and it always will be."

THE IMPACT The ad is one of three Mrs. Clinton began running on Thursday in Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia. She is following the playbook that President Obama used in 2012, trying to define herself and, with speeches attacking Donald J. Trump, define her opponent too, even before they each officially claim their nominations.

THE TAKEAWAY What is said is important, like the reference to Mrs. Clinton's bipartisan work in Washington, a strong signal as she goes up against the my-way-or-the-highway Republican candidate, Mr. Trump. But what is shown is what matters most: Photos and video clips serve to humanize Mrs. Clinton as a motherly figure, hugging young people, crouching down with little children; as a protector, standing alongside military officers; and as a hard worker, toting piles of law books, speaking out, or descending from a government plane alone in the middle of the night.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Changing channels ...

Sight Gag

Mr. Trump's more insulting remarks about women have proved irresistible satire fodder for his Republican opponents and for Priorities USA, the Democratic "super PAC" allied with Mrs. Clinton. Now, Florida Democrats are giving it a try, but with a new, "Happy Days" aesthetic. The group has made four different ads, with sepia-tone titles, faux film flicker, and a singsong narrator who would sound at home on a furniture-size tube television in the Eisenhower administration. Each offers a different "Father's Day tip" culled from Mr. Trump's utterances. No. 4: "Be as uninvolved with your children as possible!"

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Sight Gag, Part II

Of all the insults hurled at Mr. Trump, one seemed to get under his skin the most: Senator Marco Rubio's suggestion that his hands were unusually small. Mr. Trump's response spawned a thousand memes, and now even a super PAC: "Americans Against Insecure Billionaires with Tiny Hands." While joke political groups routinely file paperwork with the Federal Election Commission, this one actually cut and broadcast a 60-second ad in Washington, D.C., with actors demanding the release of Mr. Trump's hand measurements, as a doll-size hand is shown struggling to manage everyday tasks -- like pushing the nuclear button.

Numbers

43: Days since the Trump campaign ran its last television ad.

$17 MILLION: Amount spent by Priorities USA on Mrs. Clinton's behalf in the same time period.

$8.5 MILLION: Amount spent by Mrs. Clinton's campaign in four days this week.
