In an interview, Mr. Trump said he had brought up Mr. Clinton's past simply as a response to provocation.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"I would be inclined to just let it go" if the Clintons never again accused him of sexism, Mr. Trump said.

If Mr. Clinton was champing at the bit to attack Mr. Trump, he gave no sign of it on Monday.

Famed as the Big Dog of American politics, Mr. Clinton seemed to be on a tight leash during his appearances in Nashua and Exeter, delivering performances far different from the ones he gave in 2008, when some Democrats criticized him for overshadowing Mrs. Clinton with his attacks on then-Senator Barack Obama.

Mr. Clinton did not just keep his well-known temper in check: He even stopped shaking hands and signing autographs after brief forays on the rope line, a place at which he is known to spend up to an hour. It was one of several signs that, at least for this first trip, Mr. Clinton had settled into the part of supporting actor opposite his wife's starring role.

If Mr. Clinton had a theme, it was portraying Mrs. Clinton and himself as high-minded advocates of "inclusive" policies rather than exclusionary proposals like Mr. Trump's call for temporarily barring Muslims from entering the United States. Mr. Clinton used the word "inclusive" repeatedly at both events as he argued that the tenor of the presidential race was often nasty and that the candidates were not focused on the needs of average Americans.

"I don't fit anymore," Mr. Clinton said about the current political climate. "First of all, I'm a happy grandfather. I'm not mad at anybody."

Mr. Clinton appeared a little rusty, rambling at times during his first campaign rally at Nashua Community College as he delivered long anecdotes about a Muslim man who had fought gunmen in his New York City store and other Muslims who had stood up for Christians. "We don't want to run away from the place we've been -- the place that welcomes all people," he said in his most direct shot at Mr. Trump.

Photo

He talked about his own presidency and the work of his foundation, which he mentioned a few times, and about Mrs. Clinton's ideas and the need to elect a president to fit the times. (His discursive reflection on the personal problems of President Franklin Pierce, a New Hampshire native, was largely met with silence from the Nashua audience.) At one point he indicated that he was wrapping up the speech, but then began a lengthy description of Mrs. Clinton's years of work in Arkansas and elsewhere to improve education for children and opportunities for low-income people.

"Almost everybody goes into the White House with the best of intentions -- whether they succeed or not depends upon whether their instincts, their experience, their knowledge and their psychological makeup fit the times," he added. "I do not believe in my lifetime anybody has run for the job who is better qualified by experience, knowledge and temperament" than Mrs. Clinton.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Advisers to Mr. Clinton said he was focused on making the best case possible for why Mrs. Clinton should be president, rather than delivering stemwinders or playing attack dog. Political allies of Mr. Clinton added that he did not feel the need to attack, in part because he did not see Mrs. Clinton's opponents as serious threats to her at this point.

Several members of the audience said after the speech in Nashua that they were struck by Mr. Clinton's relatively muted style, but added that they were impressed that he kept much of the focus on his wife.

Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

"He was low-key in a down-to-earth way, which I think is the right thing to do, because the limelight should be on Hillary," said Gail DuFresne, 59, a nurse from Rindge, N.H.

After the Nashua event, Mr. Clinton returned to one of his old campaign haunts from the 1992 campaign, the Puritan Backroom restaurant in Manchester, where he shook hands as a CNN broadcast on a television overhead carried the headline "Trump blasts Clintons over sexism."

But Mr. Clinton declined to comment on Mr. Trump's remarks.

"It's great to be back," he said several times as he went from table to table in the state that made him the Comeback Kid with his strong second-place finish in its 1992 presidential primary.

Mr. Clinton delivered largely the same remarks later on Monday at the town hall here, but his delivery was crisper if still low-key. Mr. Clinton championed several of Mrs. Clinton's priorities like equal pay for women, saying that it was an "economic strategy" that particularly would help young people struggling with college loan repayments.

"Having lost it, I can tell you: Youth matters," Mr. Clinton said to some laughter and applause.

The New Hampshire trip was the start of a new phase in the campaign for Mr. Clinton, who until now stuck to raising money for his wife and privately offering strategy to her and the campaign's advisers. He will head to Iowa on Thursday for stops in Cedar Rapids and Dubuque, his first events without Hillary Clinton in that state.

Mr. Clinton did not compete in Iowa in his 1992 campaign, when the state's popular Democratic senator, Tom Harkin, was also running. He campaigned heavily for Mrs. Clinton ahead of the 2008 caucuses, when she finished in third place behind Mr. Obama and John Edwards.
