Photo

ST. AMANT, La. -- If Donald J. Trump were looking for those fed up with the national media and the Obama administration, he had some fertile ground in flood-wrecked southern Louisiana.

Over the week leading up to a visit here by Mr. Trump on Friday, a sentiment burned that the flooding, which has left thousands of people in shelters, has been unconscionably overlooked on the national level. The Advocate newspaper in Baton Rouge published an editorial on Wednesday slamming President Obama for not interrupting his vacation to visit the flood-stricken areas, comparing his absence to President George W. Bush's much-derided flyover of a flooded New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.

Into this came Mr. Trump.

"It just lets you know that somebody on the national level is doing something," said Sandra Bennett, 76, a Trump supporter who lost everything in the flooding and had come to see the Republican presidential nominee at the first of his several stops around the flood-battered area on Friday. "We don't just believe in Trump for this, though," she said. "We think he's got the right values."

Word that Mr. Trump would be coming surfaced in reports on Thursday night after a speech in North Carolina in which he spoke briefly of "the heartbreak and devastation in Louisiana, a state that is very special to me."

The news of his visit seemed to catch many officials here by surprise. Gov. John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, said in a statement late Thursday that he had not been told anything about it. The governor said he welcomed Mr. Trump to Louisiana, "but not for a photo-op. Instead we hope he'll consider volunteering or making a sizable donation" to to the Louisiana Flood Relief Fund "to help the victims of this storm."

Photo

Mr. Edwards also said he did not object to the lack of a presidential visit at this point, preferring that Mr. Obama not come too soon because of the logistical challenges and drain on personnel that such a visit would entail. The White House said Friday that Mr. Obama would be going to Baton Rouge on Tuesday.

There was plenty to look at for those who visited on Friday. For miles and miles, on either side of the truck-clogged roads that the motorcade traveled, there were huge piles of debris as people dumped the contents of their homes so that the structures themselves might be salvaged. In the small community of St. Amant, Mr. Trump's last stop, some homes were still nearly submerged, eight days after the flooding began.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"We lost everything we own," said James LeBlanc, the community's fire chief, ticking off the school, the grocery stores and nearly every home. "And the water's still here."

A preliminary analysis released Friday by the Baton Rouge Area Chamber of Commerce estimated that more than 110,000 homes valued at $21 billion were in the region that flooded. The vast majority were uninsured.

Mr. Trump and his running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, arrived separately at the Baton Rouge airport around 9 a.m. and set off in a long motorcade with several state Republican politicians. The first stop was in Central, a flood-ravaged suburb of Baton Rouge, at a Baptist church that had become the headquarters for a large volunteer effort. A small crowd had formed, many of them Trump supporters who had heard about the visit at the last minute.

"Thank you, Donald," many in the crowd shouted as the candidate greeted volunteers, though one woman contradicted the widespread frustrations of the last week here by shouting that the national news media should get out of Louisiana.

Sign Up for the First Draft Newsletter Subscribe for updates on the 2016 presidential race, the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

After leaving the church, Mr. Trump saw a high school that had flooded, visited with a retired law enforcement officer whose home had been badly damaged, and went to the emergency operations center in St. Amant, where he met with members of the National Guard and local officials.

He also autographed a large vehicle that was the command center for the Ascension Parish sheriff's office.

"I just got back from a tour of the suffering and devastation in Louisiana," Mr. Trump said at a rally near Lansing, Mich., on Friday evening. "The spirit of the people is incredible and, honestly, Obama ought to get off the golf course and get down there."

A large church next to the emergency center was a relief station, where people came seeking supplies.

Jacqueline DeLatte, 30, who was picking up a box of food for "everybody I know, who lost everything they have," said Mr. Obama should have come to Louisiana by now, and thought it inexcusable that he had not. This did not, however, leave her receptive to Mr. Trump's visit.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"He's just trying to show off, honestly," she said. "He's just here to see what votes he can get."
