For the second night in a row, Donald Trump took to Twitter to target the wife of his fiercest rival in the GOP presidential race, Sen. Ted Cruz.

On Wednesday night, Trump retweeted a post showing a side by side image of Heidi Cruz and Trump's wife, Melania. Text on the picture read: "No need to 'spill the beans.' The images are worth a thousand words."

Cruz quickly responded with a tweet of his own saying, "Donald, real men don't attack women. Your wife is lovely, and Heidi is the love of my life."

Donald, real men don't attack women. Your wife is lovely, and Heidi is the love of my life. https://t.co/pprXhIMzUT -- Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) March 24, 2016

The latest spat between the real estate mogul and the Texas senator follows Trump's Twitter threat on Tuesday night to "spill the beans" about Cruz's wife. Trump made the threat after the anti-Trump super PAC Make America Awesome released an attack ad featuring a racy image of the billionaire's wife, Melania, from her former modeling days. Trump blames Cruz for the ad. Cruz has said he had nothing to do with the anti-Trump super PAC's ad and that he finds it "inappropriate."

Prior to firing off the latest round in the Twitter feud between the two men, Trump defended his actions to Fox Business.

"I wrote, I said be careful because otherwise I'll have to start talking about you know -- your situation. Now, do I like doing that? No," Trump told Fox Business.

Heidi Cruz, currently on leave from a job at Goldman Sachs, is heavily involved in her husband's campaign. She helps lead his campaign's fundraising efforts and serves as a popular surrogate for her husband, often campaigning on her own. She has not commented on Trump's latest retweet but when Trump first took aim at her her, she responded by saying, "You probably know by now that most of the things Donald Trump says have no basis in reality."

Less than an hour before Trump's latest attack, Cruz addressed Trump's targeting of his wife at a campaign event in Pewaukee, Wisconsin.

"You know folks were asking me today, 'Well, is Heidi upset that Donald Trump went after her?' And, listen, Heidi has been in the business world for over 20 years, she's dealt with a lot of garbage in the business world. Women professionals deal with a lot of nonsense. She's seen bullies her entire career and I'll tell you, Heidi Cruz is not scared one iota by a bellowing Donald Trump," Cruz said.
