But on Saturday, transcripts of three appearances at Goldman Sachs events were released by WikiLeaks, part of a trove of thousands of emails obtained by hackers who illegally breached the email account of one of Mrs. Clinton's top aides.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The genial relationship she appeared to have with Mr. Blankfein and other Wall Street executives at the events would not have served Mrs. Clinton well in the Democratic primary contests, when Mr. Sanders used the speeches to portray her as being too close to Wall Street.

But for Mrs. Clinton, who is often criticized as overly scripted, her relaxed, off-the-cuff exchanges at these private events also revealed a side that she has struggled to show voters under the intense glare of a presidential race.

While the emails released last week showed Mrs. Clinton's cadre of campaign aides agonizing over jokes she should tell in public and calculating political implications, the transcripts revealed Mrs. Clinton freely dispensing her own quick wit before a closed-door audience.

In one question-and-answer session with Mr. Blankfein, Mrs. Clinton relayed an argument she had had as secretary of state, when she tried to persuade a Chinese diplomat that his country had no more right to claim the South China Sea than the United States had to the Pacific Ocean.

"He says to me, 'We'll, you know, we'll claim Hawaii,'" Mrs. Clinton told Mr. Blankfein. "And I said: 'Yeah, but we have proof we bought it. Do you have proof you bought any of these places you're claiming?'"

Mr. Blankfein interjected: "But they have to take New Jersey."

"No, no, no," Mrs. Clinton said. "We're going to give them a red state."

At these events, which took place in June and October of 2013, Mrs. Clinton repeatedly demurred when asked about her future plans, but it was also clear she was contemplating the political landscape if she were to run again.

Mrs. Clinton said that if she mounted a presidential campaign, she would need to begin raising money in 2014 or "early the following year." And she expressed concerns about how the news media covered campaigns.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"Our political press has just been captured by trivia," Mrs. Clinton said at a C.E.O. conference in South Carolina at which Mr. Blankfein moderated a discussion. "And so you don't want to give them any more time to trivialize the importance of the issues than you have to give them. You want to be able to wait as long as possible."

Excerpts from some of her speeches had previously been released by WikiLeaks, shortly after a recording surfaced in which her opponent, Donald J. Trump, made crude remarks about women. The Clinton campaign has refused to verify the authenticity of the transcripts, which came from the hacked email account of John D. Podesta, Mrs. Clinton's campaign chairman. The campaign has blamed the Russian government for the hack and WikiLeaks -- whose founder, Julian Assange, is a critic of Mrs. Clinton -- for releasing the emails in a coordinated effort to help Mr. Trump, a view echoed by the Obama administration.

The emails released Saturday included a fuller version of Mrs. Clinton's previously leaked answer to a question posed by Timothy J. O'Neill, a senior Goldman executive, at a symposium hosted by the firm. Asked how Wall Street banks should approach efforts by Washington to impose tougher regulation and oversight, Mrs. Clinton made a show of empathy and spoke gently.

She detailed her time working with Wall Street as a senator from New York and confided that the "conventional wisdom" of blaming Wall Street banks for the financial crisis was an "oversimplification." Mrs. Clinton described how banks were holding back on lending because they were "scared of regulations." She urged banks to allow greater transparency and help policy makers come up with solutions.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

"We're all in this together," Mrs. Clinton told the audience.

Most strikingly, Mrs. Clinton did not defend the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial oversight legislation, a major achievement of President Obama and congressional Democrats in the wake of the crisis -- and a target of Wall Street lobbying ever since. Instead, Mrs. Clinton suggested that it had been passed for "political reasons" by lawmakers panicked by their angry constituents.

"I think the jury is still out on that because it was very difficult to sort of sort through it all," Mrs. Clinton said of the overhaul.

Mrs. Clinton took a far stronger line in public, particularly after she began her second bid for president. In a January 2016 speech in New York, amid her tough primary campaign with Mr. Sanders, Mrs. Clinton vowed to defend the Dodd-Frank Act and expand financial regulation to new territory, such as hedge funds and high-frequency traders.

But most of Mrs. Clinton's insights involved foreign policy and her experiences as the nation's top diplomat, including concerns about North Korea's nuclear arsenal, the rise of anti-Japanese sentiment in China and a strikingly prescient prediction about the spread of nationalism in Europe.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mrs. Clinton presented the Pentagon's argument against establishing a no-fly zone in Syria, a policy that she has advocated in her 2016 campaign. Noting that American pilots would have to enforce the no-fly zone, she said, "We're not putting our pilots at risk," and added, "You're going to kill a lot of Syrians."

Other hacked emails suggest Mrs. Clinton's campaign had deep concerns about the Wall Street transcripts being made public.

In November 2015, as Mrs. Clinton's campaign was refusing to release transcripts of her paid speeches, her speechwriter, Dan Schwerin, suggested anonymously leaking to a reporter excerpts from one particular speech he wrote for her: A 2014 address to Deutsche Bank.

In that speech, he said in the email, "I wrote her a long riff about economic fairness and how the financial industry has lost its way, precisely for the purpose of having something we could show people if ever asked what she was saying behind closed doors for two years to all those fat cats." He also acknowledged that it was "definitely not as tough or pointed as we would write it now."

Another adviser, Mandy Grunwald, disagreed with Mr. Schwerin about releasing the 2014 speech. Referring to Mrs. Clinton by her initials, Ms. Grunwald argued that the speech had not been hard enough on Wall Street.

The remarks, Ms. Grunwald said, "make it sound like HRC DOESN'T think the game is rigged -- only that she recognizes that the public thinks so." Ms. Grunwald added: "They are angry. She isn't."
