Heading into the final days of the presidential campaign, the race has settled back into a tight contest, with Mrs. Clinton holding an edge over Mr. Trump after a month of tumult, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll released on Thursday.

The margin between the candidates is narrow, with 45 percent of likely voters supporting Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic candidate, to 42 percent for Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee.

Here's what else to watch for.

Melania Trump, solo in Pennsylvania, tries to smooth her husband's rough edges.

Melania Trump made a rare appearance on the campaign trail in the battleground state of Pennsylvania on Thursday, seeking to soften her husband's coarse image by proclaiming to voters that Donald J. Trump respects all Americans and promising that as president he would promote values of compassion and charity across the country.

The deployment of Ms. Trump comes as the Trump campaign is trying to extend a late burst of momentum before Election Day by swaying undecided voters and women who have been wary of the Republican nominee.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump needs the trove of wealthy and educated voters in the counties surrounding Philadelphia to succeed in turning the state red for the first time since 1988, but many of those former Republicans have been turned off by his comments about immigrants and women.

Ms. Trump, who is trying to change that, spoke at a recreational center in a Main Line town about 20 miles west of Philadelphia.

In her few interviews, Ms. Trump, a former model, has had a softening effect on her husband's hammer-blunt approach. She told Anderson Cooper on CNN recently that she was appalled by remarks Mr. Trump made about women on an 11-year-old "Access Hollywood" recording that emerged last month, but she portrayed him as merely being boisterous.

Photo

The president continues to try to bait Mr. Trump.

President Obama is able to taunt Mr. Trump in a way few others can, and he was back at it in Florida on Thursday, where he has a few stops on his schedule, including Jacksonville. Mr. Trump, as it happens, also campaigned there on Thursday.

At a rally in Miami, Mr. Obama seemed to revel in the last intensive political campaign of his life, going off-script and lagging behind schedule. In one aside, he used Senator Marco Rubio, who faced Mr. Trump in the Republican presidential primary and is in a tight re-election race in the state, to taunt Mr. Trump.

Mr. Obama noted that Mr. Rubio had called Mr. Trump a con man and said on Twitter that "friends don't let friends vote for con artists."

Mr. Rubio had nonetheless voted for Mr. Trump, the president noted.

"Obviously, he did not have good enough friends," Mr. Obama said of the senator.

Photo

Can Bernie Sanders help?

Mr. Sanders appeared with Mrs. Clinton in North Carolina on Thursday, resuming events on her behalf that have been focused in states with large populations of white working-class voters.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He stuck to many of the themes from his own primary campaign and repeated his argument that Mr. Trump was unqualified to be the president.

At a rally on Wednesday night, Mr. Trump maintained that Mr. Sanders would soon withdraw his support for Mrs. Clinton because of lingering ill feelings from their primary fight.

Mr. Sanders's schedule, which includes Clinton events this weekend in Iowa, suggests otherwise.
