Video

A lone man's climb up the side of Trump Tower became a New York City spectacle on Wednesday afternoon after thousands watched his ascent in real time on television, through social media and in person.

The man was pulled off the building's facade and apprehended by police officers who had removed a glass panel on the 21st floor about three hours into his climb. By then, he had become a social media sensation, as people watched live videos posted on Facebook and Periscope, a live video-streaming app. A stream on Facebook from WABC-TV in New York received more than four million views, and people commented along with the action. Clad in shorts and a T-shirt, the climber began to scale the building around 3:30 p.m., the police said, wearing a harness and using what appeared to be suction cups to aid his climb.

William Aubry, the New York Police Department's assistant chief of the Manhattan South detective squad, told reporters that the man was a 20-year-old from Virginia who had told them he sought to scale the tower with one purpose: to gain a personal meeting with Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee. Police officials said he told them about a YouTube video he posted on Tuesday that explained his motives. In the widely shared video that matched the police's description, titled "Message to Mr. Trump (why I climbed your tower)," a hooded man claimed he was an "independent researcher." "Believe me, if my purpose was not significant, I would not risk my life pursuing it," the man said solemnly. "The reason I climbed your tower was to get your attention."

Police did not release the name of the man, whom they took to Bellevue Hospital Center for an evaluation.

On Wednesday night, Mr. Trump expressed his appreciation for the police on Twitter, writing, "Great job today by the NYPD in protecting the people and saving the climber."

Livestreaming, which increasingly draws wide audiences, has helped turn the outlandish happenings that occur periodically in a place like New York into viral public events. In June, a broadcast primarily seen on Periscope of a naked man whom the police described as "emotionally disturbed" became a similar public spectacle.

Photo

With the climber's image being broadcast -- and commented on -- far and wide on Wednesday, the man perched, if only briefly, at the intersection of two unpredictable worlds: the combustible presidential campaign and the chaotic city beneath him.

The climb and frenzy that followed were also the latest instance in which Trump Tower has starred in a noteworthy role during the campaign. The building on Fifth Avenue, the site of Mr. Trump's campaign launch and his residence, has prompted some of the same strong emotions as those inspired by the candidate himself.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It has been a magnet for those making political statements: a protester in a Ku Klux Klan-style hood who tussled with security guards in September; 200 marchers in December; anti-gun activists in the spring. It has also been the site of a zoning tussle, magnified by the stakes of the presidential election, after the Trump Organization was forced to remove a Trump kiosk from its lobby, which had been designated as a public space as part of an agreement that allowed the developer to add 20 stories to the building's height.

And it has burnished its status as a tourist attraction, drawing more than one million visitors every year from around the globe.

On Wednesday, hundreds of people gawked from the streets below, filming the climb with cameras and phones, oohing after the man dropped an object. Some cheered for him, remarking on the difficulty of his climb. "You will never believe what I just saw," a woman leaving the commotion said into her cellphone.

Aaron Hesseltine, 17, in town with his family from Saranac Lake, N.Y., to see Alex Rodriguez's last game with the Yankees, watched for an hour and a half, documenting the experience on Snapchat for his friends at home. His last missive showed the moment the climber disappeared into the opening.

"They got him," it read.
