"It definitely makes me happy to live under the Trudeau government," said Cordell Jacks, 36, an international development worker in Vancouver, British Columbia, referring to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Jacks added that he wanted to see his country become a leader in championing human rights and battling climate change. "Canada's going to be in a higher position to take on global issues that America's going to put to the side," he said.

Since becoming prime minister a year ago with a promise of "sunny ways," Mr. Trudeau has enjoyed an unusually close relationship with President Obama. Now the Canadian government must plan for a future where the differences between Mr. Trudeau and Mr. Trump will probably go far beyond style.

During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump rejected action to mitigate climate change while Mr. Trudeau has made it a priority, including setting minimum national carbon taxes. While Mr. Trudeau caught the world's attention by fulfilling a promise to admit 25,000 refugees from Syria, Mr. Trump has proposed closing the United States' doors to them. And Mr. Trump has argued that America's allies should increase their military spending at a time when Mr. Trudeau is backing away from combat roles for Canada in favor of United Nations peacekeeping missions.

How Will a Trump Presidency Affect Your Country? We want to hear from readers outside the United States on the election of Donald J. Trump. We may publish a selection of the responses. Queremos saber que opinan nuestros lectores afuera de Estados Unidos tras la eleccion de Donald Trump como presidente de Estados Unidos. Algunas de estas respuestas podrian ser publicadas. Required fields are marked with an asterisk. How do you think a Trump presidency will affect you and your family? ?Como crees que una presidencia de Trump te afectara a ti y a tu familia? Continue How do you think a Trump presidency will affect your country? ?Como crees que una presidencia de Trump afectara a tu pais? If you had a meeting with the president-elect, what is one thing you would tell him about your life and your country that could inform his foreign policy? Si te pudieras reunir con el presidente electo, ?que le contarias sobre tu vida y tu pais para informar sus decisiones de politica exterior? Continue What is your name? * ?Como te llamas? Where are you from? * ?De donde eres? What is your phone number? ?Cual es tu telefono? By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, does not plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, does not violate anyone's rights and is not libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to our Terms of Service. Thank you for your submission.

For a country with an economy that depends heavily on exports to the United States, the most worrying uncertainty for Canada involves Mr. Trump's protectionist trade stance and his vow to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. While Mr. Trump's attacks on Nafta have mostly been aimed at Mexico, the pact, and the agreement between Canada and the United States that it incorporated, effectively left much of Canada's industry largely producing for export.

Mark Warner, a trade lawyer in Toronto, said that while it was unclear what Mr. Trump had in mind for Nafta, he feared that a Trump administration would rekindle old trade battles with Canada.

"We're going to get sideswiped by some of this stuff," Mr. Warner said. In particular, he said he expected Mr. Trump to promote "Buy America" clauses in government infrastructure projects that would shut out Canadian companies -- a violation of Nafta.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Not every Canadian, of course, was displeased by the election result.

"As a gay, liberal, health care-loving Canadian, most of my friends thought I was crazy to be supporting Trump," Ashley MacIsaac, who is perhaps Canada's most famous fiddle player, said in an email. "But I suggested he had to win to offer a chance for world peace by preventing WWIII with Russia and for his stance on radical Islam."

In Cape Breton, Nova Scotia -- Mr. MacIsaac's home -- the life of Rob Calabrese, a radio disc jockey, has been unexpectedly upended by a tongue-in-cheek website he set up in February: Cape Breton If Trump Wins. Despite a surge in election night traffic, the site did not crash. And the election result, Mr. Calabrese said, generated about 200 emails overnight.

"It was all very playful before, but now there seems to be a sense of urgency to them," he said of the emails.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Andrew Griffith, a former director general of the citizenship and multiculturalism branch of Canada's immigration department, said most of those suggesting they would leave because of Mr. Trump would not qualify as refugees and would have to go through a system that rates them based on factors such as education and job skills.

Having a firm offer for a skilled job in Canada can make getting a visa a relatively fast process, Mr. Griffith said. But in general the process can be protracted, expensive and without guarantees. And for almost everyone, he added, starting life over in a new country, even one next door, would be disruptive.

"It's not an automatic process despite the Twitter posts saying 'You're all welcome here,' " Mr. Griffith said. "Well, you're not all welcome."
