She added, "We will be watching the decisions that Congress makes and updating our economic outlook as the policy outlook becomes clearer."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump's election has not altered the Fed's short-term plans. Ms. Yellen made clear in her testimony that the central bank remained likely to raise its benchmark interest rate at its next meeting, in mid-December.

"The evidence we've seen since we met in November is consistent with our expectation of strengthening growth and an improving labor market," Ms. Yellen said. "I do think the economy is making very good progress toward our goals."

A rate increase, she said, "could well become appropriate relatively soon."

Ms. Yellen also set to rest questions about her own plans. Her term as chairwoman ends in February 2018. "It is fully my intention to serve out my term," she said.

The Fed has prepared markets in recent months for the likelihood of an increase in its benchmark interest rate in December. At a meeting two weeks ago, the Fed's policy-making body, known as the Federal Open Market Committee, found the case for a rate increase had strengthened but said officials were awaiting "some further evidence."

Investors put that chance above 90 percent Thursday, according to a measure derived from asset prices by CME Group.

"Chair Yellen struck a reasonably -- but still somewhat subdued -- positive tone on the economy, and her words will be seen as signaling a high likelihood that the F.O.M.C. will be tightening policy at next month's meeting," wrote Jim O'Sullivan, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics.

The Fed has not raised its benchmark interest rate since December, leaving it in a range of 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent. The low level is intended to encourage borrowing and risk-taking, driving faster economic growth. Several times this year, the Fed has suggested it might raise rates, only to pull back over concerns about the fragility of the economy.

But the Fed's outlook has brightened in recent months as evidence has rolled in that the economy, on most measures, is in its best shape in years.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

"U.S. economic growth appears to have picked up from its subdued pace earlier this year," Ms. Yellen said, adding that job growth had also continued at a healthy clip. She noted, among other things, that soybean exports had surged in recent months.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The unemployment rate was 4.9 percent in October, and inflation has increased modestly.

And Republicans could provide a fresh jolt to economic growth. Senator Dan Coats, the Indiana Republican who is chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, cited a "growing consensus" that there is a need for fiscal stimulus, like tax cuts and infrastructure spending, and regulatory reforms. "The past seven years have clearly taught us that low interest rates alone cannot cure an ailing economy," Mr. Coats said.

He added, however, that Congress needed to remain "mindful" of the relatively high level of the federal debt. And, in a preview of the role reversal that is likely to occur in the next Congress, Democrats on the committee chided Republicans for their spending plans.

"I am interested to see how President Trump's infrastructure plan can be reconciled with past Republican opposition to fiscal stimulus," said Representative Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat and the ranking party member of the committee.

Interestingly, Republicans made little mention of their various proposals to rewrite the Fed's operating instructions to limit future economic stimulus campaigns. The only mentions of such plans, a staple of Fed hearings in recent years, came from Democrats.

Ms. Maloney warned that Republican proposals would "lead to disaster." She also noted such a push might not play well in the Midwestern states where voters turned to Mr. Trump in part because of his promises to revive their economic fortunes.

"I'm not sure that people in Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and other states would respond well to that suggestion," she said dryly.

Democrats also asked Ms. Yellen to address Republican proposals to dismantle the Dodd-Frank Act, the 2010 legislation that overhauled financial regulation after the 2008 financial crisis.

"I certainly would not want to see all the improvements we've put in place, I would not want to see the clock turned back," she said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Yellen offered a now-familiar assessment of the choice facing the Fed in December.

On one hand, Ms. Yellen said, there was room for improvement. "While above-trend growth of the labor force and employment cannot continue indefinitely," Ms. Yellen said, "there nonetheless appears to be scope for some further improvement in the labor market."

She noted that stronger growth was pulling some Americans back into the labor force.

She cautioned, however, that the Fed did not want to wait "too long." Monetary policy exerts gradual influence on economic conditions; the full effect of an interest-rate increase plays out over several years. And some Fed officials are increasingly concerned that the central bank needs to start moving now, or else it will need to raise rates more quickly in coming years.

Ms. Yellen also acknowledged a related concern that low interest rates were encouraging imprudent speculation. "Holding the federal funds rate at its current level for too long," she said, "could also encourage excessive risk-taking and ultimately undermine financial stability."
