We start by talking about Mitt Romney's public pageant to be appointed secretary of state. Why would he be putting himself through this?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Shear says those who know Mr. Romney say he has "a sense of service, partly because of his Mormon faith but also a sense that he wants to serve the country,"

Given how fiercely Mr. Romney condemned Mr. Trump during the campaign -- calling him a phony, a con man, a fraud -- Mr. Shear is just as intrigued by the opposite question: not why Mr. Romney would put himself through this process, but why Mr. Trump would even offer him the job.

Ms. Davis has an answer, based on her reporting. "One of the things that we know that he said privately about Mitt Romney is that he seems like he's straight out of central casting for secretary of state, which, coming from Donald Trump, is the highest possible praise."

We discuss what's in store for Rudy Giuliani, whether Chris Christie is off the scene entirely, what to make of Kellyanne Conway's seemingly scripted "going rogue" moment and what, generally, we expect from a Trump presidency.

"I think the institution of the White House and the physical building has a huge impact on its occupants," Mr. Shear says. "It's possible that once they move into that building and once they start flying around on the plane and they're in the East Room, that some of the tradition, some of the things that normally happen that presidents do, will start happening. It will never be exactly like Obama -- it shouldn't be, and it won't be -- but I think it may be more normal than people think."

We also talk about Mr. Trump's tweets, and the question of how the media should cover them.

"I've been sort of mystified at the notion that we should somehow ignore what are by most accounts completely unrehearsed, un-poll-tested utterances from the mouth of the person who's about to become president of the United States," Ms. Davis says.

"We don't have to retweet them credulously -- we shouldn't -- we don't have to report them without any context or fact-check element -- we shouldn't -- but for the most part each one of these things is an important window into the way he's thinking, certainly the way he's communicating with 16 million of his followers, and it contributes to a portrait of him that, frankly, we don't have that many other primary sources to fill out."

"We're in the early stages of an unprecedented experiment," Mr. Homans adds. "We've never had this sort of window on any president before. There are a ton of fascinating implications of that, that we haven't sorted out. What does the steady stream of kidding-not-kidding utterances mean in terms of how we read more formal statements by Trump or by his administration? How does the rest of the world, in the event of a diplomatic incident, read official proclamations coming from the White House?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We end with a lightning-round question: Is Donald Trump having fun?

How do I listen? Two ways

From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above.

Or if you're on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series.

On your iPhone or iPad:

1. Open your podcast app. It's a pre-loaded app called "Podcasts" with a purple icon. (This link may help.)

2. Search for the series. Tap on the "search" magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in "The Run-Up" and select it from the list of results.

3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the "subscribe" button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives.

4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you'll be able to stream the episode.

On your Android phone or tablet:

1. Open your podcast app. It's a pre-loaded app called "Play Music" with an orange-and-yellow icon. (This link may help.)

2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the "Podcasts" search results.

3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word "subscribe" to have new episodes sent to your phone free.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you'll be able to stream the episode.
