Donald Trump today slammed President Obama for not interrupting his vacation to visit Louisiana after deadly flooding in Baton Rouge and parts of Lafayette.

Before meeting volunteers at the Greenwell Springs Baptist Church, north of Baton Rouge, Trump said, "The president says he doesn't want to go, he is trying to get out of a golf game."

"I heard he wants to stay under par while we are under water," said Tony Perkins, the president of the Family Research Council and Trump supporter, who met with Trump at the church.

Trump then hit Obama's golfing game: "He will never be under par."

The White House said Obama has been receiving a series of briefings on the situation in Louisiana while on vacation in Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts.

The Republican presidential candidate and his running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, landed in Louisiana today, and and spent their morning meeting with local officials, volunteers and the National Guard and touring the flood damage.

Trump told ABC News' Tom Llamas that he came to Louisiana because he wants "to help out."

"They have to take it as they see it" Trump tells @TomLlamasABC when he asked if yesterday's speech was an apology pic.twitter.com/FZgWmLjpnH -- ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) August 19, 2016

At one stop, Trump and Pence helped unload a truck of toys.

"I've had a great history with Louisiana. They need a lot of help," Trump said, addressing reporters after helping. "What's happened here is incredible. Nobody understands how bad it is. It's really incredible. So, I'm just here to help."

One man who was affected by the flood, Jeff Nolan from Denham Springs, Louisiana, said it meant a lot for Trump to visit Louisiana.

"I didn't lose anything compared to what a lot of people lost," Nolan told ABC News. "I'm OK. It's materialistic things. They can be replaced."

"Donald Trump's the way to wake us up," Nolan said. "He's waking America up. He's got to get busy. America's got to get behind him. Without America getting behind Donald Trump, we're going to lose. And we're going to lose bigger than this flood ever did."

Pence, along with his wife Karen and daughter Charlotte, arrived before Trump this morning and received a briefing on the damage.

Pence told ABC News the volunteers they met are "incredibly inspiring."

"These volunteers are incredibly inspiring but the American people need to know that Louisiana needs help," Pence urged. "Volunteers, support for the Red Cross, support to the charities like Samaritan's Purse that are coming along side these vulnerable families and we're just here to help tell that story and very inspired by it."

Thursday night, while campaigning in Charlotte, North Carolina, Trump took a moment to send condolences to Louisiana, a state he said is "very, very special" to him.

"Our prayers are with the families who have lost loved ones, and we send them our deepest condolences," Trump said. "Though words cannot express the sadness one feels at times like this, I hope everyone in Louisiana knows that our country is praying for them and standing with them to help them in these difficult hours."

The flooding in Louisiana has left 13 people dead and displaced thousands from their homes.

A state of emergency has been declared by Gov. John Bel Edwards.

"Gov. Edwards wasn't informed of the Trump campaign's visit to the state or the schedule," according to a statement from the Democratic governor's office. "We welcome them to Louisiana, but not for a photo-op. Instead we hope they'll consider volunteering or making a sizable donation to the LA Flood Relief Fund to help the victims of this storm."
