Democratic leaders in New Jersey are discussing ways to cut Mr. Christie's $175,000 salary, arguing that he is shirking his duties by traveling the country to campaign with Mr. Trump.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And a leading state senator on Wednesday raised the possibility of impeaching Mr. Christie for "dereliction of duty."

"We thought, with his White House quest over, he'd come home," said the senator, Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from Teaneck. "But I guess for the next three months, he's going to travel around the country selling the splendors of Donald Trump."

Perhaps most painfully for a governor who prizes his reputation as unbossable and independent, Mr. Christie has inspired a cornucopia of online parodies skewering his relationship with Mr. Trump as a form of political servitude.

"Why," Dan Savage, the liberal writer, wondered on Twitter, "hasn't President Obama sent the Navy SEALs in to rescue Chris Christie already?"

Digitally altered images rendered Mr. Christie as a docile doorman at Trump Tower and compared him, uncharitably, to a panting dog standing beside its master.

Mr. Christie appeared onstage at Mr. Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Fla., on Tuesday, as his warm-up act and head-nodding affirmer. Seemingly minutes later, carefully cut videos started zinging around the Internet, analyzing every movement of Mr. Christie's eyes, head and fingers for signs of duress, as if he were a prisoner of war.

The image of Mr. Christie as a supplicant proved irresistible. Longtime enemies and disapproving predecessors could not pass up the chance to weigh in.

"They were very strange expressions -- or nonfacial expressions on his face," said Christie Whitman, a former Republican governor of New Jersey and a skeptic of its current leader. She summoned a soupcon of faint praise. "That's hard to do for a long period of time."

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Senator Weinberg, a Christie nemesis who watched the news conference from home on Tuesday night, could not pull herself away.

"It almost did me in," she said. "I found it unpleasant, disconcerting and ...."

She paused. "I am trying to think of negative words that are still appropriate to use."

She settled on "really awful."

Those close to Mr. Christie said he had anticipated the furor of his endorsement, but had been a bit taken aback by the depth of the vitriol over the past few days. In his mind, linking arms with Mr. Trump was practical, loyal and politically savvy, in keeping with his decision, in 2011, to become the first major Republican official to endorse Mitt Romney, who ultimately became the nominee.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Privately, they said, Mr. Christie and his team attribute the anger to the feeling of helplessness that once-powerful Republican leaders feel over Mr. Trump's ascent, something those leaders did little to stop and now want to pin, perhaps unfairly, on the governor.

"I went into this with my eyes wide open; I knew it would make some people upset," Mr. Christie said during his monthly radio show on Monday.

Hinting at his frustration with Republicans who have second-guessed him but stayed out of the campaign, he added: "I'm not an on-the-sidelines guy. I'm not going to be one of these people who sits on the side and snipes."

But Mr. Christie's enthusiasm for politics means traveling out of state, an expensive habit many expected the governor to curtail after he quit the presidential campaign a few weeks ago.

According to The Star Ledger of New Jersey, Mr. Christie has spent all or part of 520 days outside the state since the beginning of 2013. The trips, collectively, cost hundreds of thousands of dollars in flights, meals and lodging for the governor's 24-hour security detail, which is typically four to six people, Ms. Weinberg said.

All of it, she said, is footed by New Jersey taxpayers.

"He's costing us a heck of a lot of money," Ms. Weinberg said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mrs. Whitman said it was time for Mr. Christie to come home.

"You have to do the job you've got," she said, adding, "You can't do it from Florida."

The workaday drudgery that awaits Mr. Christie in New Jersey, however, may not lead him to the same conclusion.

He could travel the country aboard Mr. Trump's private plane, or he could contend with Democratic lawmakers who are rejecting his appointment of a justice to the State Supreme Court. He could give rousing speeches about making America great again, or he could absorb a new poll that shows his approval rating is at 30 percent in New Jersey, the lowest since he took office. He could advise Mr. Trump on strategy, or he could watch as a Democrat who may seek to replace him as governor circulates a petition demanding that Mr. Christie make a choice.

"Either Governor Christie comes home and performs the job for which we continue to pay him, or he needs to get out of the way," the petition reads.

Its author, Philip D. Murphy, a former ambassador to Germany, said the response had been overwhelming. Within hours of its creation, more than 5,000 people had signed it.

"People have had it," Mr. Murphy said, comparing Mr. Christie's travel to a taxpayer-funded donation to Mr. Trump.

"We need the chief executive of the state to be present and accounted for," he said.
