Mr. Trump is looking to capitalize on news that the F.B.I. is continuing its investigation into Mrs. Clinton's emails and trying to connect her to the lingering problems haunting the Affordable Care Act.

For Mrs. Clinton, who has tried to maintain an air of confidence despite the rough stretch, the mission is to change the subject from the new F.B.I. email review and remind voters about Mr. Trump's mistreatment of women and history of avoiding taxes.

Last week, Mr. Trump was lamenting "dark polls" that showed him lagging behind Mrs. Clinton. Now he loves them again.

The latest update to The Upshot's election model shows Mr. Trump with only a 12 percent chance of winning the election, but a batch of national tracking polls -- including one that has the race in a virtual tie -- and improving state polls suggest that the trends are moving in his favor.

Kellyanne Conway, Mr. Trump's campaign manager, made the case for Mr. Trump's viability in a fund-raising pitch to potential donors on Tuesday morning and said that the campaign was planning a $140 million advertising blitz in the next week.

Democrats continue to criticize the F.B.I. and its director, James B. Comey.

Democrats have expressed outrage at the bureau's unusual pre-election disclosure that it is analyzing the emails of Huma Abedin, a top aide to Mrs. Clinton, as part of its investigation into the candidate's use of a private server as secretary of state.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Both campaigns have called on the bureau to release more information about its review before the election, but it remains unclear if that will happen.

We reported that the F.B.I. is using a special computer program that allows bureau analysts to determine whether the emails contain classified information and whether they are duplicates of emails that were already examined as part of the inquiry that was closed in July.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Paul D. Ryan is not defending Mr. Trump or campaigning with him, but he did vote for him.

"I stand where I stood all fall and all summer," Mr. Ryan said in an interview on Fox News. "In fact, I already voted here in Janesville for our nominee last week in early voting."

Mr. Ryan has had a frosty relationship with Mr. Trump throughout the campaign and further distanced himself from the candidate last month after the release of a 2005 recording showed Mr. Trump bragging about groping women. However, Mr. Ryan said on Tuesday that it was important to support the party despite those misgivings.

"We need to support our entire Republican ticket," he said.

Photo

Jay Z will be by Mrs. Clinton's side on Friday.

On Friday, the hip-hop star will head to Ohio for a get-out-the-vote event for Mrs. Clinton, and she will join him for a performance at the Wolstein Center at Cleveland State University.

Tickets are being distributed on a first-come, first-serve basis at the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections and at Clinton campaign offices around the state.

No word on whether Mrs. Clinton will take the mike.
