Here are key moments from the face-off between Republican vice-presidential candidate Mike Pence and Democratic rival Tim Kaine at Longwood University in Farmville, Va. (Sarah Parnass/The Washington Post)

Before the vice-presidential debate began, we wrote it was a sure bet that one of the headlines from this debate was likely to come from the Twitter account of one Donald J. Trump. We were right.

How did we know this? Well, for one, Trump tends to have thoughts on and about debate nights:

I refuse to call Megyn Kelly a bimbo, because that would not be politically correct. Instead I will only call her a lightweight reporter! -- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 27, 2016

Did Crooked Hillary help disgusting (check out sex tape and past) Alicia M become a U.S. citizen so she could use her in the debate? -- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016

Even ones he's not officially a part of:

I will be live-tweeting the V.P. Debate. Very exciting! MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! -- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 5, 2016

And he had lots of thoughts Tuesday. In just the first hour of the debate -- as his running mate made the case that the Clinton campaign represented an "avalanche of insults" -- Donald Trump:

1) Inexplicably sniped at a Fox News anchor with whom he's had a feud with:

.@megynkelly- I am in Nevada. Sorry to inform you Kellyanne is in the audience. Better luck next time. -- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 5, 2016

Context for this: @MegynKelly quipped that Trump is "surrounded by his team," controlling his tweets, "like, Kellyanne's got the thumbs..." https://t.co/Nf4XG28aF6 -- Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) October 5, 2016

2) Retweeted accounts calling Democrats' vice-presidential nominee, Sen. Tim Kaine (Va.), a liar:

"@RoadkingL: @mike_pence Wow, Kaine couldn't go 12 seconds without a lie. Marines and military are scared of the liar running. #bengazi" -- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 5, 2016

3) Retweeted accounts insulting Kaine's appearance:

"@Jnelson52722: @realDonaldTrump @Susiesentinel Kaine looks like an evil crook out of the Batman movies" -- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 5, 2016

4) And (see above) retweeted a tweet that included an account that has mentioned "white genocide":

30 minutes in, and Trump has already retweeted an account that references "white genocide" (@nycmia) https://t.co/5m8VZxCiDv -- Dan Primack (@danprimack) October 5, 2016

Here's an example from that aforementioned account mentioning "white genocide":

Twitter has become a place where an unfiltered Trump feels like he can tell it like it is to his 12 million followers -- even if his tweets, often posted in the wee hours, deliver a message his campaign would probably rather they didn't. (See: this and this and all these.)

But the vice presidential debate wasn't 5:30 a.m., and Trump wasn't necessarily unfiltered. His spokesman said there were four aides by his side as he watched the debate in Nevada:

Aides present tonight as Trump live tweets, per Jason Miller:

Steve Bannon

Hope Hicks

Stephen Miller

Dan Scavino -- Vaughn Hillyard (@VaughnHillyard) October 5, 2016

We can see why. The debate was aired in prime time in much of America, and even though Tuesday's first and only meeting of the two 2016 vice-presidential candidates is unlikely to move the needle on the presidential campaign, the stakes were high in the sense that more people were tuned into the presidential campaigns than on a usual Tuesday night (save for election night, of course).

1 of 19 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad x Kaine and Pence face off during the vice-presidential debate in Virginia View Photos The vice-presidential debate at Longwood University in Farmville, Va. Caption The vice-presidential debate at Longwood University in Farmville, Va. Oct. 4, 2016 The vice-presidential nominees -- Republican Gov. Mike Pence, right, and Democratic Sen. Tim Kaine -- stand before the audience during the vice-presidential debate at Longwood University. Steve Helber/AP Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

As Trump sat watching, phone in hand, Trump's staff members likely wanted to make sure he doesn't fire off a tweet or retweet something that would have (a) drawn attention away from their typically on-message vice-presidential nominee, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, or (b) start another controversy that will stretch into the days ahead.

This article's existence confirms they've failed on the first goal. And TBD on the second. As of this writing, there's still 40 more minutes of the vice presidential debate, and Trump is still tweeting.

Update: Trump played it safe the rest of the debate, mostly retweeting his campaign's rapid-response news releases attacking the Hillary Clinton ticket.
