

Donald Trump. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post); Hillary Clinton. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)

A new television ad from Hillary Clinton features some of Donald Trump's degrading descriptions of women -- spoken in his own words -- as a series of girls around the age of puberty are shown looking self-consciously at themselves in the mirror.

The 30-second spot, airing in several battleground states, concludes with a question on the screen: "Is this the president we want for our daughters?"

Several previous ads from the Democratic presidential nominee have sought to diminish Trump by using his own words, including one in which he makes controversial comments about veterans. But this is notable for the Republican's comments about women in a race that includes a candidate who would be the nation's first female president.

Hillary Clinton's campaign released this ad Sept. 2, targeting Donald Trump's past comments about women. (Hillary Clinton)

The ad is clearly intended to appeal not only to women but other voters who find Trump's colorful language about them offensive. A Washington Post-ABC poll earlier this month found 60 percent of Americans voters saying Trump is biased against women and minorities, including 66 percent of women and 53 percent of men.

Among the comments, culled from TV and radio interviews, that are featured in the ad:

"I'd look at her right in that fat, ugly face of hers."

"She's a slob. She ate like a pig."

"A person who is flat-chested, it's very hard to be a 10."

"Does she have a good body? No. Does she have a fat (beep)? Absolutely."

The spot also includes an old interview in which Trump is asked: "Do you treat women with respect?"

"I can't say that either," he responds.

[Clinton makes an unusual push: To win over disabled people and their families]

Clinton has vowed to close her campaign with a greater emphasis on her policy prescriptions for the country if elected president. That included a speech Wednesday in Orlando about how to better integrate people with disabilities into workplaces.

The new ad, however, provides fresh evidence that the Clinton team is still very focused on trying to tear down Trump at the same time. Clinton has been heavily outspending Trump on TV, largely going after him with negative spots.

Clinton aides said the new ad, titled "Mirrors," is airing in Ohio, New Hampshire, Iowa, Florida, Nevada, North Carolina and Pennsylvania, and on national cable stations.

Polling manager Scott Clement contributed to this report.
