At a rally in Pueblo, Colo., Oct. 3, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump slammed the U.S. tax code as "unfair," but vowed to use his own understanding of it to fix it for Americans. (The Washington Post)

This post has been updated with a couple more examples that have come to our attention.

"I understand the tax laws better than almost anyone, which is why I'm the one who can truly fix them," Donald Trump claimed Monday in Colorado.

It is one of many issues on which Trump is one of the world's foremost experts, according to Trump. In fact, you might say he's the best at being a self-proclaimed expert.

Below is a list of the many things about which Trump says he knows more than just about anybody. Even for a guy who's fond of hyperbole, it's a lot to take in.

1) Renewables

"I know more about renewables than any human being on Earth." -- April 2016

2) Social media

"I understand social media. I understand the power of Twitter. I understand the power of Facebook maybe better than almost anybody, based on my results, right?" -- November 2015

3) Debt

"Nobody knows more about debt. I'm like the king. I love debt." -- May 2016

4) Taxes, again

"I think nobody knows more about taxes than I do, maybe in the history of the world. Nobody knows more about taxes." -- May 2016

I know our complex tax laws better than anyone who has ever run for president and am the only one who can fix them. #failing@nytimes -- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 2, 2016

"Nobody knows more about taxes than I do -- and income than I do." -- May 2016

5) Banking

"Nobody knows banking better than I do" -- February 2016

6) Wall Street bankers

MATT LAUER: You're a guy who said you know the Wall Street bankers better than anyone. TRUMP: Better than anyone. -- April 2016 on NBC's "Today" show

7) Money

"I understand money better than anybody. I understand it far better than Hillary, and I'm way up on the economy when it comes to questions on the economy." -- June 2016

8) The U.S. system of government

"I think nobody knows the system better than I do." -- August 2016

"I am a person that used to be establishment when I'd give them hundreds of thousands of dollars. But when I decided to run, I became very anti-establishment, because I understand the system than anybody else." -- July 2016

"Nobody knows the system better than I do." -- April 2016

9) Campaign contributions

"I used to be, George, the fair-haired boy -- you know, when I was a contributor. I know more about contributions than anybody." -- November 2015

10) Politicians

"Nobody knows politicians better than Donald Trump." -- February 2016 rally

11) Sen. Cory Booker

If Cory Booker is the future of the Democratic Party, they have no future! I know more about Cory than he knows about himself. -- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2016

(We're putting this on the list assuming that nobody ELSE knows more about Booker than Booker, which would make Trump the world's foremost non-Cory Booker expert on Cory Booker.)

12) Trade

"Nobody knows more about trade than me." -- March 2016

13) Jobs

I hope all workers demand that their @Teamsters reps endorse Donald J. Trump. Nobody knows jobs like I do! Don't let them sell you out! -- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 8, 2016

14) Infrastructure

"Nobody in the history of this country has ever known so much about infrastructure as Donald Trump." -- July 2016

15) The military

"There's nobody bigger or better at the military than I am." -- June 2015 Fox News interview

16) ISIS

"I know more about ISIS [the Islamic State militant group] than the generals do. Believe me." -- November 2015

17) Defense -- and offense

"So a general gets on, sent obviously by Obama, and he said, 'Mr. Trump doesn't understand. He knows nothing about defense.' I know more about offense and defense than they will ever understand, believe me. Believe me. Than they will ever understand. Than they will ever understand." -- July 2016

18) The 'horror of nuclear'

"There is nobody who understands the horror of nuclear more than me." -- June 2016

19) The visa system

"Because nobody knows the system better than me. I know the H1B. I know the H2B. Nobody knows it better than me." -- March 2016
