

In this Oct. 10, 2008, file photo, former Secretary of State Colin Powell is seen in Washington. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh, File)

The list of Republicans supporting Hillary Clinton is still growing. For months, we have been keeping track of all of the GOP politicians, administration officials, business leaders and donors who have crossed over to back Clinton over Donald Trump.

The most recent high-profile announced was from former secretary of state Colin Powell. "General Powell said at a meeting of the Long Island Association that he would be voting for Hillary Clinton," spokeswoman Peggy Cifrino said in late October. Powell added in a brief interview with The Post's Karen DeYoung that he picked Clinton "because I think she's qualified, and the other gentleman is not qualified."

Powell's support isn't much of a surprise, given his support for President Obama in 2008 and 2012 and clear distaste for Donald Trump. In his leaked emails from last month, Powell also appeared to be talking over the best time to announce his support for Clinton.

But at least it's official now. And Powell is now the third Bush Cabinet official to support Clinton.

Below is that list as it stands:

Former presidents (1?)

George H.W. Bush (?) -- Kathleen Kennedy Townsend said in a Facebook post that Bush told her this in-person. The president's office isn't confirming it, but she stands by it. "That's what he said," she told Politico

Members of Congress (1)

Rep. Richard Hanna (N.Y.), a moderate Republican who is retiring this year, told Syracuse.com that he will support Clinton and that Trump is unfit to lead. He cited Trump's criticism of Khizr Khan. "I think Trump is a national embarrassment," Hanna said. "Is he really the guy you want to have the nuclear codes?"

Former Republican elected officials (12)

George W. Bush administration officials (30)

Officials in previous GOP administrations (13)

The list of Republicans who reject their presidential nominee, Donald Trump, and support his Democratic opponent keeps growing. (The Washington Post)

Foreign policy leaders (3)

Robert Kagan , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, former Reagan State Department aide and adviser to the presidential campaigns of John McCain and Mitt Romney

, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, former Reagan State Department aide and adviser to the presidential campaigns of John McCain and Mitt Romney Max Boot , senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and adviser to GOP presidential candidates -- "I'm literally losing sleep over Donald Trump. She would be vastly preferable to Trump."

, senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and adviser to GOP presidential candidates -- "I'm literally losing sleep over Donald Trump. She would be vastly preferable to Trump." Peter Mansoor, retired Army colonel and former aide to former CIA director David Petraeus -- "It will be the first Democratic presidential candidate I've voted for in my adult life."

Business leaders/donors (8)

Political operatives (10)
