

Donald Trump eats a piece of steak in New York City, New York. (Stephen Lovekin/WireImage for Hill & Knowlton)

NEW YORK -- After celebrating his Republican primary win in Wisconsin on Tuesday night, Sen. Ted Cruz rattled off numbers that his TV audience may not have known: 69 percent of the vote in Utah; 18 friendly delegates in North Dakota; six delegates in Colorado; at least 36 delegates in the Badger State, which unnamed members of the media had called "perfect for Donald Trump."

Cruz, a senator from Texas, did not mention the next primary, in New York, where 95 delegates could wipe those gains away in one night.

Donald Trump, a fixture in media and culture here since Cruz was in elementary school, enjoys broader support in New York than he has in any previous primary state. The conservative infrastructure that lifted Cruz in Wisconsin has no analogue in New York. Talk radio hosts such as Charlie Sykes spent months attacking Trump; their counterparts here have liked him for years.

[Winners and losers in the Wisconsin primary]

"We don't really like Cruz, and Donald is one of us," said John Catsimatidis, a billionaire grocery store mogul and 2013 Republican mayoral candidate who now hosts a talk show. "He's a happy-go-lucky guy. He's not seen as extreme. He's seen as the guy who gets big things done and saves money when he does them."

Two weeks ago, even before he began a string of gaffes and a damaging one-way feud with Cruz's wife, Heidi, Trump lagged in Wisconsin polls. In Milwaukee and its suburbs, Republicans opposed him by a 2-to-1 margin. When he showed up in the city for an election eve rally, he was confronted with the unthinkable: empty seats.

There is little risk of that in New York, where Cruz and Trump will campaign Wednesday and which votes April 19. In a Quinnipiac University poll conducted last month, during Trump's most disastrous week, he was supported by 56 percent of New York Republican voters. Just 20 percent backed Cruz and 19 percent backed Ohio Gov. John Kasich. Eighty percent of Trump voters said their minds were made up, compared with only 57 percent who said that about Cruz. Republicans viewed Cruz favorably by a 49-to-40-point margin; for Trump, the margin was 68 to 27 points.

New York's 95 delegates are split between the winner of the statewide popular vote and the winner in each congressional district. Winning more than 50 percent in either entitles a candidate to all of the local delegates. Although a new party rule hands delegate selection to the state party, not to the candidate, the New York GOP is home to an unusual number of Trump supporters, such as Rep. Chris Collins (R-N.Y.), the first congressman to endorse him.

"I can't see Ted Cruz getting much of a reception at all," said Rep. Peter T. King (R-N.Y.), a congressman who has heaped scorn on Cruz's Senate career. "People who are very anti-Trump will vote for him, but there's really nothing about Cruz that should appeal to New Yorkers. If voters believe that Kasich and Cruz have an equal shot, they'll vote for Kasich. He hasn't attacked our values."

King was referring to a Cruz habit, frequent in Iowa and rare thereafter, of attacking Trump's "New York values," the sort of "pro-abortion, pro-gay marriage" views that he said made him unfit to lead conservatives. That prompted Trump to passionately defend New York, invoking memories of 9/11. "We rebuilt downtown Manhattan, and everybody in the world watched," he said at the Jan. 14 debate.

Cruz, for once, was speechless. When he counterpunched in a radio interview and news conference, he simply attacked New York liberalism a little harder. The Texan's first post-Wisconsin event in New York will be at a charter school in the Bronx, an update to Ronald Reagan's famous swing through that borough, when he asked voters to consider how the federal government had failed them.

1 of 45 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad x What Donald Trump is doing on the campaign trail View Photos Businessman Donald Trump officially became the Republican nominee at the party's convention in Cleveland. Caption Businessman Donald Trump officially became the Republican nominee at the party's convention in Cleveland. Donald Trump speaks at a campaign event at Trump Doral golf course in Miami. Carlo Allegri/Reuters Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

But Cruz's occasional overtures to New York Republicans have been star-crossed. According to King, Cruz revealed his "ignorance" by saying he supported police patrols of Muslim neighborhoods along the lines of what New York City had done. "That program is over, and he was relying on [Mayor Bill] de Blasio's incorrect descriptions of it."

In April 2015, Cruz appeared at a "fireside chat" hosted by two gay hoteliers, and he allegedly soft-pedaled his opposition to gay marriage. Eight months later, Cruz was just as diplomatic to a worried Manhattan donor who wanted to be assured that banning gay marriage was not a "top-three priority." Politico obtained a tape of Cruz's answer, which was folded almost immediately into Iowa attack ads.

The winnowing of the GOP field has left more New York donors open to Cruz -- but they are hardly flocking to him. Anthony Gioia, a Buffalo fundraiser who bundled $500,000 for George W. Bush, said he would meet with Cruz's finance director on Thursday but was still "in mourning" over the defeat of Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida.

"A friend of mine knows Cruz well and has spoken highly of him," Gioia said. "He said: 'Tony, maybe Cruz wouldn't be a terribly good candidate, but he'd be a good president. He's damn smart.'"

Anthony Scaramucci, a hedge-fund manager who backed Mitt Romney in 2012, was even colder to Cruz. "I am out of the race at this time and will support whoever Paul Ryan eventually supports," he said.

Kasich, who was blown out in Wisconsin, sees an opportunity if New York remains Cruz-skeptical. "No congressional district has Cruz higher than third," said Kasich strategist John Weaver. "He's shown his contempt for New York, though that's not to say he won't come here and pander."

Kasich spent Monday on Long Island, first at a town hall that overfilled a Hofstra University room for 453 people, then at a concert venue in Huntington that fit 3,000. His experience-first message had hardly changed from Wisconsin; all that was new was a joke about how he'd had to "recover" from being seen eating pizza with a fork, and some explicit appeals to Jewish voters.

"It's really the great Jewish tradition -- you're not in this world only to help yourself, you're in it to lift people," Kasich said in Huntington, where close to 70 percent of voters are Jewish.

At each event, Kasich was cheered by voters who described themselves as moderate -- and just as rattled by Cruz as by Trump. Several said that they respected Trump but simply weren't confident in him as a president.

"I was a tremendous fan of his, before he started running," said Jason Verity, 41. "That TV show was pretty cool, to say the least. But some of the stuff he said is too polarizing. And my problem with Cruz is that not even Republicans seem to like him.

Louis Rose, 57, said that Trump didn't speak "intelligently enough" to earn the nomination. But while he leaned toward Kasich, Rose insisted that President Obama was a "closet Muslim" and that any Republican who ran needed at least some Trump-style know-how.

"He redid the rink in Central Park when nobody else could," Rose said. "When he says he's going to build the wall, he's going to build the wall."

That view of Trump might be difficult to dispel. Cruz will try, assuring the Republican voters who know Trump best that they've been misled. In late March, Cruz released a Web ad preview of that attack, paging through over $600,000 in Trump donations to Democrats. A vote for Trump, he implied, was a vote for Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), who has recently become more of a bete noire for conservatives.

John Catsimatidis didn't think that attack would work. "I don't think anyone cares," he said. "I'm a Republican, and I've made plenty of donations to Chuck Schumer. I'm a businessman, and Donald Trump's a businessman. Everybody knows that."

Carl Paladino, a Buffalo businessman whose 2010 gubernatorial bid rattled the local GOP much like Trump's campaign has rattled it nationally, argued that Trump had already out-organized Cruz. As statewide co-chair, Paladino had been putting together a Trump organization for "three or four months." Before that, he had tried to get the state party to run Trump for governor. Cruz, he said, was simply arriving too late to capitalize on his limited anti-Trump appeal.

"The smart move is for Trump and Cruz to end the nonsense and have a pow-wow," said Paladino. "But we're gonna beat him pretty badly in New York first."
