Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz accused rival Donald Trump of threatening to attack his wife Heidi Cruz in order to cover his inexperience. (Reuters)

NEW YORK -- Sen. Ted Cruz called Donald Trump's Twitter attack on his wife a "new low" on Wednesday.

"Even for Donald, though, he reached a new low. It's one thing to try to attack another candidate. It's another thing to come after my wife," Cruz told reporters here.

Trump tweeted about Cruz's wife Tuesday night, then deleted it, then tweeted a more polished version of his sentiments.

"Lyin' Ted Cruz just used a picture of Melania from a G.Q. shoot in his ad. Be careful, Lyin' Ted, or I will spill the beans on your wife!" Trump wrote.

The real estate mogul accused Cruz's campaign of disseminating an attack ad featuring a photo that ran more than a decade ago in GQ of Trump's wife Melania seemingly naked on a rug. The ad was from an anti-Trump group.

[Again: Nothing is off limits for Donald Trump, including spouses]

Cruz defended his wife, who is the daughter of Christian missionaries. The Cruzes have two young daughters. Heidi Cruz is on leave from her job as a managing director at Goldman Sachs.



Sen. Ted Cruz, with wife Heidi, their two daughters, and supporter and former rival Carly Fiorina, reacts to March 15's primary election results in Houston on March 15. (Trish Badger/Reuters)

"Heidi has spent a couple of decades in the business world. She's used to the rough and tumble, I'll tell you it is not easy to be a woman in the business world, and she is used to dealing with bullies, and Donald Trump doesn't scare Heidi remotely," Cruz said.

Earlier, speaking on Fox Business Channel, Cruz used a line that is very similar to one from a movie to defend his wife.

"Donald Trump, if you want a character fight, stick with me because Heidi is way out of your league," Cruz said.

It's very similar to a line from "The American President," a 1995 movie written by Aaron Sorkin, starring Michael Douglas and Annette Bening.

"You want a character debate, Bob, you'd better stick with me, because Sydney Ellen Wade is way out of your league," Douglas's character said.
