Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and vice presidential candidate Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA), along with former president Bill Clinton, Anne Kaine and Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf arrive for an event at K'NEX in Hatfield, Pennsylvania, July 29, 2016. REUTERS/Aaron P. Bernstein

NEW YORK Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton held a 6- percentage-point lead over Republican rival Donald Trump, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll with new wording that was released on Friday, the day after she formally accepted her party's nomination for the Nov. 8 election.

Nearly 41 percent of likely voters favor Clinton, 35 percent favor Trump, and 25 percent picked "Other," according to the new July 25-29 online poll of 1,043 likely voters, which overlapped with the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.

The poll has a credibility interval of 4 percentage points.

DON'T MISS:

McCain slams Trump over attack on dead Muslim soldier's parents

FBI employee accused of being Chinese agent to plead guilty: prosecutors

Rio's Olympic air: Dirtier and deadlier than expected

The presidential tracking poll reflects a slight change of wording from previous surveys, replacing the "Neither/Other" option given to respondents with just "Other." An internal review had found the word "Neither" has, at times, siphoned support away from one or the other candidate.

Former Secretary of State Clinton delivered an upbeat keynote address at the Democratic convention on Thursday night, as she became the first woman to accept the presidential nomination from a major party.

In the biggest speech of her more than 25-year-old career in the public eye, Clinton, 68, cast herself as a steady leader at a "moment of reckoning" for the country, and contrasted her character with what she described as Trump's dangerous and volatile temperament.

Trump, a 70-year-old New York businessman and former reality TV show host who has never held political office, responded in a Twitter post late on Thursday that "Hillary's vision is a borderless world where working people have no power, no jobs, no safety."

Both candidates were on the campaign trail on Friday, kicking off what is expected to be a hotly contested general election battle.

A separate Reuters/Ipsos survey that provided respondents with the option to choose from Clinton, Trump, Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson and Green Party candidate Jill Stein, has Clinton and Trump tied at 37 percentage points.

Of the alternative party candidates, Johnson came in third with 5 percentage points, followed by Stein at 1 percentage point, according to the July 25-29 survey of 1,426 likely voters, which has a credibility interval of 3 percentage points.
