Starting on Thursday, presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump takes a break from the campaign trail and jets off to Scotland, the home of golf, William Wallace and the mythical Loch Ness monster, for a two-day trip.

Often, presidential candidates plan overseas trips to boost their foreign policy credentials -- typically packing their schedules with official meetings. But Trump's jaunt across the pond looks more like an opportunity for him to tout his own business and real estate endeavors.

Here's everything you need to know about his trip:

Where He's Going

Trump touches down in Prestwick, Scotland on Friday at 8:30 AM local time. Later that day he plans to attend the reopening of his recently-renovated resort, the Trump Turnberry, in Ayrshire, where he'll hold a press conference and a ribbon cutting ceremony afterwards.

Trump reportedly invested some $300 million into the resort, which overlooks the Ayrshire coast, and includes a "lighthouse" suite for an "out of this world experience," according to the hotel's website. Trump acquired the resort in 2014, and did a massive renovation of the property and its famous Ailsa course, which hosted the Open Championship four times.

Saturday, the presidential candidate is planning to visit his other golf course and resort property in Aberdeen before flying back to the United States.

Jan Kruger/Getty Images

Timing Is Everything

Trump lands on the heels of the "Brexit" referendum, which will determine whether the United Kingdom pulls out of the European Union.

In an interview on Fox Business Wednesday, Trump said he would "probably vote to get out" of the E.U., citing the migration of immigrants as one reason to leave.

"I don't think anybody should listen to me because I haven't really focused on it very much," Trump said. "But my inclination would be to get out."

Trump's trip also comes at the end of a tumultuous week for the presumptive Republican nominee.

Lackluster campaign finance numbers, released late Monday night, showed that Trump raised a meager $3.1 million during the month of May compared to $25.5 million for Hillary Clinton and has just $1.3 million in cash on hand, compared to Clinton's $42 million on hand.

He also parted ways with his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, this week a move that Trump said: "He's a good guy, he's a friend of mine. But I think it's time now for a different kind of a campaign."

The Cold Shoulder

Turns out Trump may not be welcomed by everyone with open arms.

Back in March, Nicola Sturgeon, the First Minister of Scotland, said she was keeping her "fingers crossed" Trump will not become president.

"I really hope that Donald Trump does not become President of America. It's not up to me, it's not up to us, it's up to the people of America," Sturgeon said.

Following Trump's call to ban Muslim immigration to the United States, Sturgeon revoked his business ambassador credentials. A spokeswoman for Sturgeon said Trump's comments showed he is "no longer fit to be a business ambassador for Scotland."

Trump was also stripped of his honorary degree from Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen, according to the Associated Press.

The presumptive Republican nominee is not scheduled to meet with any government leaders or officials while in the United Kingdom.

Fore!

Though Trump will use the trip to showcase his properties, several reports show that his investments in Scotland may not be as successful as he had hoped.

In July 2015, Trump claimed on U.S. financial disclosure reports that his Aberdeen golf course is worth "over $50 million," yet with documents filed with the British government, Trump reported the course lost more than $1.6 million in 2014, according to the Washington Post. Also last year, the R&A, the governing body of golf, announced that Turnberry will not be considered a host for the Open Championship any time before 2022.

Scott Heppell/AP Photo

A Trump Family Homecoming

Trump's trip to Scotland will also represent a moment of connection with his roots.

In 2008, the GOP candidate, whose mother was a Scottish immigrant from the Isle of Lewis, visited Scotland.

"I feel very comfortable here," Trump said at the time, after visiting his mother's cottage. "It's interesting when your mother, who was such a terrific woman, comes from a specific location, you tend to like that location. I think I do feel Scottish."

Trump added, "I think this land is special, I think Scotland is special, and I wanted to do something special for my mother," referring to resort and golf course he was hoping to invest in.
